---
layout:          news_default
categories:      news
date:            2026-03-14 11:00:00 -0400
title:           "???"
summary:         "???"
---
Okay I finished proofreading and editing - as always, _mostly_, as the transcript doesn't actually perfectly line up with the audio and the inflection and emotion needs to be transcribed a bit better, but that's a problem for another me. I fixed all formatting errors! Yay!

Anyway, today's letter is CRAZY??? A new one comes out April 1 but doesn't fit into the chronological order I have this whole thing fit into, but I'm not upset because I'm expecting it to be insane?? Sorry I'm fanboying (and fujoing out a bit) but oh my goddd. 

Idk how long I'm going to have the interest and/or motivation in this podcast and this archive to keep up with the monthly releases, especially since I'll be almost thirty (???) when the final episode airs, but I'll try and keep it up for as long as possible! I trust my taste enough now that, unless I become an evangelical Christian or something, I won't look back and find this whole thing incredibly cringe. Oh god these news posts are getting preserved too, that's so weird to think about. 

Anyway my Red Valley _hyperfixation_ might be over, but it went strong for a good 8 or 9 months and I still really like the podcast, so I'm sure I'll still like this one at least for two or three years to come. I hope I can pump out one or two fanfics by that time, but honestly I do NOT understand John well enough to write him I fear... (Charles is so real though.) 

OH ALSO HI LINNN IF YOU'RE SEEING THIS I'M SORRY LOL.
