---
layout:         post
title:          "October 9th, 1892"
date:           1892-10-09 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "October 9th, 1892"
episode_number: '002'
summary:        "'Let me show you what I can do.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by C. X. Chambers]

#### October 9th, 1892

My dear Mr. Chambers,

I’ve been giving a great deal of thought to your “Hands of Thor” act. I know that you’re reluctant to change any fundamental elements of the illusion, but I have what I think is an ingenious way to take the trick from good to great.

The essential concept of making it appear as though lightning is coming from your hands is a good one. From the diagrams you’ve sent me, your engineering is sound and I have no doubt the audience will be delighted. But once again, you’ve kept your illusion sedate—exciting yes, but with no sense of real risk or danger. That is the way to strike true awe in the hearts of your audience.

I know you would prefer that I assist you in simpler, more banal ways. Be a plant in the crowd, be sawed in half, whatever is most likely to diminish me and my talents. But I implore you to reconsider. Regardless of how I came to be your assistant for the World’s Fair, I can be a true asset to you.

I have recently been exploring the more daring corners of the art of escapology and, if it isn’t too imprudent to say so, I believe I’m quite gifted at it. Whether locked in a box or trussed up in chains, there is nothing I cannot escape from in under a minute. While I will have to see your contraption in person, I have several ideas for how we can combine it with my feats of escape. I suspect you’ll dislike all those ideas from the start, but I would ask that you enter into the conversation with an open mind. Let me show you what I can do.

Speaking of which, when are you going to invite me to your workshop for some practical experimentation? I know that we have nearly a year until we’ll be on stage, but I see no reason why we should delay. As I’m certain you already know, I do not currently have a theatrical contract keeping me occupied, though no doubt that won’t last for long. Seeing as you yourself are not touring at the moment, it seems it is the perfect opportunity to congregate and begin putting together the pieces of our show.

I hope to hear from you soon, I am

Yours respectfully,

J. S. Fogg
