---
layout:         post
title:          "April 2nd, 1930"
date:           1930-04-02 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "April 2nd, 1930"
episode_number: '041'
summary:        "'Your presence in my life has led to the contemplation of law-breaking on several counts.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by J. S. Fogg]

#### April 2nd, 1930

Dear John, 

Thank you for your March 29 letter, and for the restatement of your invitation to California. I believe you, when you say that even such dire times as these seem somewhat less so in the face of sun and an ocean breeze. But I can’t tear myself away from the Eastern coast just yet. I think I may finally have a way to make true in roads in D.C. I’m not under any delusions that I’ll get Hoover’s ear, but I have to try. 

I regret having to reject your invitation to Los Angeles, but I have no regrets about rejecting your offer of money. I’m not so hard up as to need a hand out from you, though I do appreciate the gesture for what it is. Because yes, if you must know, most of my wealth was either given away or put into stocks. But I still have the Manhattan home. It’s on the market now and while it certainly will go under asking price if it goes at all, I’m sure the funds will be enough to get me through this difficult period. It can’t last forever. 

I did have the thought—one complicated by how far in the halls of power I’d like to get over the next year—that it might be time to start thinking about killing Charles Chambers. He’s in his sixties now, not too young for his passing to be conspicuous, and losing what I have in the finance department may have been a blessing in disguise when it comes to this particular conundrum. I can fade into obscurity quietly, amidst the chaos of the current turmoil. 

Killing Charles Chambers is one thing, but who will I be once reincarnated? I’m too old a dog to learn the trick of a new name but “Charles Xenophon” is hardly suited for flying under the radar.  Have you given any further thought to your future self? Do you imagine you’ll still try to pass yourself off as your own grandson? I do see the merits in that, in terms of making claims on your own estate, but what of the scandal? You have no marriages on record, so any child you had that could have produced a grandchild would have to be a bastard. People will talk. Though I suppose you always have liked people talking about you, no matter what they’re saying. 

What we need is a conspirator, John. Someone in the law profession who might be able to ease the way for us generation to generation. Then again, we’d run into the same problem of needing to convince a new person of our nature every sixty years or so. Perhaps a family law firm—a line of fathers and sons who can aid and abet us in committing some light fraud. I never thought I’d be a man to commit any crimes and yet your presence in my life has led to the contemplation of law-breaking on several counts. And when it comes to our continued existence in society, there really is no other option. 

Until such time, I remain, for now,

Your friend,

Charles Chambers
