---
layout:         post
title:          "March 31st, 1927"
date:           1927-03-31 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "March 31st, 1927"
episode_number: '038'
summary:        "'If you do see it, please write me back and let me know your thoughts.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by J.S. Fogg]

#### March 31st, 1927

My dear Mr. Fogg,

I saw another film the other day—“Metropolis”, from Germany. By a filmmaker called Fritz Lang. Have you seen it? You frequent the picture house more than I do. It was quite unlike anything I’d ever seen before. I’m not sure if you’ve read any of the Amazing Stories magazine, but this scientifiction seems to be all the rage at the moment.

I’m not sure I could have dreamed of this particular scenario even ten years ago—watching a German film set in a bizarre, ultra-mechanized future. To think that what we were doing in the nineties felt so advanced, our World’s Fair show called a technical marvel, and now there are all these pictures making every fantasy and whim real. And, while I don’t keep up with the news of the film industry, but it seems that moving pictures with true sound are well on their way. It somewhat boggles the mind.

Equally as mind boggling is this large rash of films coming from Germany specifically. They’re all quite fascinating, at least the ones I’ve seen, and of course art is always being made everywhere, no matter the circumstance, but time and again over the last decade, I have been gripped by the fear that we pummeled Germany into oblivion so completely that they’d never recover. So many of their young men dead. So much of their country destroyed. Then again, I suppose it makes all the sense in the world that they’d have an awful lot to express and what better way to do it than through art?

Seeing the world the way that I have in recent years, there’s a bubbling sense of something about to happen. It’s hard to think how we could possibly advance faster or further than we already have, but people seem to think that we’ll soon be flying over the Atlantic as an everyday activity and seeing new pictures in the theater every week and that disease will be a thing of the past. It sounds like quite the future.

Will it all have been worth it, do you think? If we have flying automobiles and good health the world over and an ever-flowing fountain of art and science to keep our minds occupied…if we step into that utopian world, will it have been worth it? Tens of millions killed, millions more with their lives left in tatters and it all feels like a vaguely distant dream now. The world has simply moved on.

Perhaps that’s for the best. Perhaps it doesn’t serve anyone to ruminate on the past and stand in terrible awe at the cost of where we are now. Perhaps in all this advancement it is us, humankind, that is advancing the most, and we won’t need to remember the mistakes of our past in order to not repeat them.

My, I’ve gotten quite off topic here. I simply thought you might enjoy “Metropolis” or, at the very least, find it interesting, and I wanted to tell you that in case you hadn’t heard about it. If you do see it, please write me back and let me know your thoughts. And I will remain,

Sincerely yours,

C.X. Chambers.
