---
layout:         post
title:          "May 2nd, 1912"
date:           1912-05-02 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "May 2nd, 1912"
episode_number: '023'
summary:        "'I’m sorry, John. I’m sorry that you were there and I’m sorry that I wasn’t.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received at the former address of J.S. Fogg]

#### May 2nd, 1912

My dear ~~John~~ Mr. Fogg, 

I have vacillated on whether to send this letter, as you and I have not spoken for nearly a decade now. But whatever you may think of me, however we left matters the last we saw each other, I still found myself holding my breath when I saw your name on the reported manifest for the Titanic. I only found oxygen again when I saw that you were listed among the living. 

What absolute rotten luck that you should be on that voyage and after what, by all accounts, was a very successful European tour. You must be thrilled by the success you’ve found—I’m thrilled for you—but I cannot imagine what horror you endured in order to survive that catastrophe. 

Seeing your name there in ink caused me to reflect on our last conversation yet again, for I have been reflecting on it frequently for the last nine years. I feel I need to apologize, Mr. Fogg, for the way I comported myself. I was short-tempered and brash and should have lingered there on that balcony with you until you had spoken your full mind. 

I shudder to think of all the different ways that fateful night on the Atlantic could have gone for you. Part of me is astounded that you managed to get through it unscathed and part of me thinks it makes all the sense in the world. After all, you are known for your unlikely escapes. And you are one of the most persistent and resilient people I have ever met. 

I’m sorry, John. I’m sorry that you were there and I’m sorry that I wasn’t. Perhaps that’s foolish—in fact, it almost certainly is—but having been present for your previous brush with death, I feel somehow responsible for you. Or, if not responsible, I at least have the desire to be there to pull you out of the water, as it were. 

There are times when I wish we were better friends. Times when I wonder what kind of intimacy we might have now if the trick hadn’t gone wrong at the Fair all those years ago. Would we have continued to work together? Would we have become close confidantes? Despite how it ended, I think we did work quite well together. The audience certainly seemed to think so. And despite my reaction to your outlandish retelling of the events, I feel you did elevate my act. You elevated me, simply by being the thorn in my side that you are, if nothing else. 

This is all to say, with age and wisdom and the harrowing disasters of life, I was of the mind that we should meet now that we’re both back in the states for the foreseeable. I’m sure you’re still resting and recovering—two weeks is surely not enough to feel you’ve got your feet on solid ground—but when you’re feeling yourself again, I’d like to see you. 

I’m hoping you’ll be open to meeting with me. I’m in New York most of the year these days and I imagine you yourself will be staying put for some time. My address is as it always has been, but if you’ve lost it, you can of course find it on the envelope that enclosed this letter. Being the homebody that I am, you are welcome to call on me any time if that is more expedient. 

I hope you are faring as well as you can be and I am, 

Yours affectionately,

C.X. Chambers

