---
layout:         post
title:          "September 5th, 1905"
date:           1905-09-05 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "September 5th, 1905"
episode_number: '013'
summary:        "'I’m sure Charles Chambers would say that my past fiascos are due to haste and sloppy execution.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### September 5th, 1905

It was a smash, just as I knew it would be. How could it not be, when I’ve finally premiered an escape before Houdini had the chance? 

I’ve already taken to collecting the newspaper clippings about the show and in doing so have been reading them again and again—they are the best reviews I’ve ever received by miles. 

“Fogg the Fearless astounds and amazes!” 

“After years of solid trade in the illusionist business, Fogg is now astounding audiences with spectacular escapes”

“How does he do it? Is there any chain that can hold Fogg?”

To say that it has been a much needed boost to my ego would be the understatement of our new century. As I bask in the glow of hard-won praise, I find myself reflecting on all the failures that led to this point. While I’m sure Charles Chambers would say that my past fiascos are due to haste and sloppy execution, I believe it is more likely that I’ve merely been well ahead of my time.  

It is not that I didn’t astound audiences before, but that the audiences were not yet ready to be astounded in such a manner. Apart from the World’s Fair and a few other inauspicious performances, my execution of illusion and escape has been precise and perfect. And yet show after show fell short in the eyes of the public and the theaters. Now, I perform many of the same tricks—even if I have embellished them further—and they fill seats and cause wide eyes and excited gasps. 

There is a lingering frustration that it took me so long to get here. But here—with sold out shows and rave reviews—is where I find myself all the same. It seems the times and I are finally aligned and I have to think there is nowhere to go but onwards and upwards from here. 
