---
layout:         post
title:          "August 9th, 1901"
date:           1901-08-09 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "August 9th, 1901"
episode_number: '012'
summary:        "'It would seem almost cruel to object him to my poor manners.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]

#### August 9th, 1901

Spain is beautiful and I feel I can’t enjoy a single sunbeam of it. A kind of melancholy has overtaken me, the likes of which I’ve not felt before. 

The cities I have visited so often over the last decade are feeling more and more unknown to me. The management at many theaters has changed, the dedicated attendees moving on to other places or other endeavors, and the fellow magicians on the circuit strangers to me. My tours were never packed with social affairs, but I’ve interacted with other people even less on this one than ever. 

I believe I might be lonely. I can’t remember ever being lonely in my life. Mother is getting older, and writing me less, and still insists on staying in Ohio. The usual acquaintances I would see in London or Paris or Barcelona don’t appear to have time for me, and there is no one else I write or speak with with any frequency, aside from the usual correspondence that occupies any successful businessman or performer. 

I am uncertain what to do with this particular plight. It seems a poor use of time to attempt to make friends here in Europe when I hardly stay in one place for very long. And without an assistant, there is no one to come on tour with me. 

Not for the first time, I am contemplating writing John Fogg. Whenever I find myself at an odd end, socially speaking, my mind turns to that fickle magician. I have no earthly clue whether a letter from me would be welcome, but he certainly provides me with interesting conversation. We corresponded regularly in the years leading up to the fair and have hardly spoken since. I find myself curious as to what he’s been up to, what he might be thinking about this new century of ours. 

Then again, I can’t think of a single interesting thing I would have to say to him. He is not a man that has ever struggled with being sociable, it would seem almost cruel to object him to my poor manners. 
