---
layout:         post
title:          "December 20th, 1911"
date:           1911-12-20 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "December 20th, 1911"
episode_number: '022'
summary:        "'I have no doubt he would have thoughts on how best to improve my act all the same.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### December 20th, 1911

I have somehow found myself in the most bitterly cold and dark place on the planet earth, just in time for the longest night of the year. I’m sure that Scotland has much to recommend it, but I can’t imagine any of those qualities being present in December. 

After so many years of longing to tour Europe, I confess I miss New York. I don’t go back home until April and it could not come quickly enough. While the venues here have been delightful, the crowds large and easily impressed, and the acquaintances I’ve made good company, I have never been outside my dear city for so long. 

The matter isn’t helped by the fact that my act has grown stale. Oh, yes, of course the audience is still enraptured, but I can feel myself getting bored once again. It feels as if I’ve escalated illusion and escape as far as it can go—no one astounds like the Great and Mysterious Fogg!—that I have no earthly notion how to find anything new or exciting to do. 

Perhaps being back in Manhattan will inspire me. Perhaps I need to do what Charles Chambers always encouraged and attend the shows of other illusionists or even, God forbid, consult with one of them. I’m uncertain if Chambers is still performing but I have no doubt he would have thoughts on how best to improve my act all the same. 
