---
layout:         post
title:          "May 15th, 1908"
date:           1908-05-15 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "May 15th, 1908"
episode_number: '019'
summary:        "'I have no interest in children and have yet to meet a woman I would be inclined to marry.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]

#### May 15th, 1908

Another year gone by, another birthday candle blown out (metaphorically speaking, given that this day has been like any other), and I find myself more lost and meandering than ever before. The magic trade has exhausted me fully and I see no way to make it interesting to myself again. So, for the time being, I am more or less retired. 

I feel too young—and certainly too youthful—to retire and yet it seems the only thing to do. It isn’t as if I am pressed for funds. Especially with Mother gone, my expenses are bare and I’ve invested well through the years. Not to mention, I’ve never lived particularly lavishly, beyond opting for the finest accommodations on trains and ocean liners. Though, in recent years, those expenses have largely been taken care of by the theaters that roll out the red carpet for me, both literally and figuratively. 

It’s astounding to me, that I lead the kind of life where a plush rug is laid out for me in order to step onto a train of all things. I had always hoped to someday be comfortable, and certainly Father always held ambitions for me far beyond our station, but were he still alive, I imagine I’d have exceeded even those. The amount of wealth I have is staggering—enough for me to live on until I die, enough for me to pass on to any potential heirs. 

Not that that is particularly likely. I have no interest in children and have yet to meet a woman I would be inclined to marry. I have yet to meet anyone I would be inclined to spend enough time with that I could reasonably spend money on them. 

What is it all for? The work, the money, the success? What do I do with it all? I had thought that magic would occupy my mind enough that I would never have to think how to spend my time, but even that has lost its luster. I’m hale and hearty, with abundant resources and endless curiosity for the world and yet there is a yawning chasm inside me, begging to be fed. 

If only I knew what to feed it. 
