---
layout:         post
title:          "January 1st, 1945 (sent)"
date:           1945-01-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "January 1st, 1945 (sent)"
episode_number: '056'
summary:        "'Perhaps I’m a fool who believes something requited when it isn’t.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by J. S. Fogg]

#### January 1st, 1945

John, 

Happy New Year, my friend. I’m not even sure my letters are getting to you - I know you, I know you're writing to me, but it’s been months now without a word. Who knows if this will make it across the Atlantic. But I would be remiss if I didn’t write to you; if I didn’t still try to share this holiday with you in some way. Though you wouldn’t think it a holiday with the mood around here. This war seems never-ending and the winters are the worst. 

I’m afraid, John. I’m not ashamed to admit it. This war has both denigrated my opinion of mankind and elevated it. I’ve seen things I’ll not forget for the rest of my life, which may, in fact, be the rest of time. Centuries could pass and I wouldn’t forget how cruel—how depraved—mankind can be. 

I also won’t ever forget the kindness and camaraderie I’ve experienced. Not only from my fellow brothers in arms, but from the ordinary citizens of besieged lands, who are so terribly brave to endure what they have. There is goodness here, still so much beauty left in humanity, but I fear if this goes on much longer, we may lose it. 

But I don’t write to you to share the horrors of war. Despite my unit’s morale, this _is_ a holiday, at least for me, and it brings me no small amount of warmth to imagine you celebrating somewhere _safe_. Perhaps with a drink in your hand, toasting with a friend, or looking up at the stars in your lovely garden. Picturing such things has made the cold and miserable weather here somewhat bearable. 

But that isn’t all I imagine. I keep thinking of our last New Year’s spent together and I find myself filled with regret, wishing that night had been so different than it was. After you’ve read this letter, you can tear it, burn it—you can choose to never write to me again—but I ask that you _do_ read it, all the way through. Just this once. 

There are things I want to say to you, things I should have said on that night three years ago. I almost did say them, I _tried_, in whatever clumsy way I could but fear got the better of me then, the way it had many times before. I began to worry that you were doing me a kindness in not rising to the bait. That you knew exactly what I was angling for and were too good-hearted to lead me into making an ass of myself.

That is only one possible version of events I imagine. I’ve had too much time to think these last few years, John—too much and too little—and sometimes I’m tortured by the idea of that unspoken rejection and other times a powerful belief grips me that you were right there with me, on the same page. Thinking the same things. Wanting the same things. Wishing I could be brave.

Who knows, maybe I give myself too much credit in casting the kind eyes of hindsight on my actions. But, with those eyes, so many things that were previously hazy have become startlingly clear. Perhaps I wasn’t fully aware of what I was doing back in ~~’41~~ ’42 (just barely), but I’m aware now. Enough to proclaim what I have long known, in my most secret of hearts, to be true.

I have never adequately expressed the depth and intensity of my regard for you. And I can’t here, not in writing, not in a letter that will pass through who knows how many hands before it reaches you. But I promise you that when I come home, I _will_ tell you. I’ll tell you everything. If you’ll let me, I’ll do much more than that. 

I have no idea how you’ll react. It’s very possible that you will be shocked, that I have been successful in my misdirection. I certainly was with myself, choosing not to see what has been there all along. 

But somehow I don’t think that’s the case. I’ve never been able to pull one over on you, John. And, of course, it would serve my interests better if you weren’t surprised, if you’d seen the truth all this time. That is what I hope for. It’s certainly conceivable that that hope is misplaced—perhaps I’m a fool who believes something requited when it isn’t—but I’d rather be a fool with hope than a cynic without it. 

And _God_, I have hope. 

There’s more I would say, but I’m perilously close to reaching the end of this page. We move out tomorrow—I’ll write again when we’re settled. 

‘Till such time we meet again, I am, as ever,

Your fool,

Charlie