---
layout:         post
title:          "July 5th, 1910"
date:           1910-07-05 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "July 5th, 1910"
episode_number: '021'
summary:        "'It seems the kind of thing he would enjoy.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]

#### July 5th, 1910

Yesterday, I attended my first fourth of July celebration since mother died. She and I—when I was in the country that is—would spend every July 4 on the banks of the Ohio river, watching the fireworks bursting in the sky, the light of them reflecting off the water’s surface. Ohio summers may not have brought any more coolness than those found in New York, but there was always great relief in being out of the stuffy crowded city for those July days. 

It was only after finally selling the house this past spring that I realized I wouldn’t be returning home for the summer. I suppose I could go to Ohio anyway, stay in a hotel, or rent a house for the season, but it wouldn’t be the same. 

In any case, I found myself coming to Long Island to spend the holiday with Frank and his wife. They’re fine people and have been good friends to me throughout the years, or as good friends as I am able to have. Frank, at least, was a great help after the World’s Fair disaster, his medical degree very useful in soothing my fears that I had permanently damaged my heart in the process of performing the Hands of Thor. As far as his expertise—which is great—was able to tell, I was as fit as a fiddle after that incident. 

And I seem to have stayed that way. I cannot remember the last time I suffered from a head cold and, as I watch my peers grow weary and aged around me, I feel no different. And when I arrived here at Frank’s summer home, he commented several times how well I looked, ultimately pestering me with questions about my diet and other various habits. I don’t think I was able to answer him satisfactorily. 

Because the fact of the matter is that I haven’t done anything differently the past few years—or ever in my life—that would account for my startling lack of wrinkled grayness. The conversation I had with John Fogg all those years ago keeps ringing in my head. Any time it crosses my mind, I dismiss it as folly, but it always creeps back in just the same. 

I wonder where Mr. Fogg celebrated the holiday. I hope he had a wonderful fireworks display to look at. It seems the kind of thing he would enjoy. 
