---
layout:         post
title:          "August 14th, 1891"
date:           1891-08-14 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "August 14th, 1891"
episode_number: '002'
summary:        "'I suppose only time will tell.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C. X. Chambers]

#### August 14th, 1891

I’ve done it. After much deliberation and experimentation, I have determined what my act at the Chicago’s Fair will be. While I know the exhibition is still two years away, it feels important to be as prepared as possible, especially with such a unique and intricate illusion.

I’m calling it “The Hands of Thor”. Through the careful placement of mirrors and expert use of electrical energy, it will appear as if I hold the power of lightning in my palm. I will use it to break a glass and set a lightbulb ablaze. I have completed the preliminary diagrams that I’m certain will provide me with the desired result and I now move to the testing phase.

The one factor that complicates the whole business is fellow conjurer John Fogg. He and I set a wager a year or so ago on the final location of the Fair and I, as I knew I would would, won. But the terms of the bet—which I foolishly set forth myself—mean that Mr. Fogg is to become my apprentice for the Fair’s performance. How I will convince him to behave himself and not spoil the trick, I have no earthly notion.

With the incredible benefit of hindsight, it is difficult to understand why I set those terms in the first place. I have to think it was the terrible delirium tremens I had at the time and Mr. Fogg’s singular ability to bait me. I have not worked with an assistant a day in my career and I certainly had no intention to ever start. If I were to take someone on, I cannot think of anyone less suited to the job than John Fogg. His work is bombastic and imprecise, and we could not be farther apart when it comes to our philosophies on the magical arts. The possibility of disaster should we work together feels unacceptably high.

Then again, perhaps he’s forgotten about the matter entirely. I have neither seen nor spoken to him since April of last year, when I wrote him after Chicago was announced as the Columbian Exposition’s destination. He appeared up for the challenge of being my apprentice in our correspondence then, but no firm plans were set. On reflection, I have to wonder if he so enthusiastically agreed simply on the basis of stubborn pride. While I had always expected him to be a poor loser, perhaps he didn’t want to be seen as such.

I suppose only time will tell.
