---
layout:         post
title:          "January 1st, 1943 "
date:           1943-01-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "January 1st, 1943 "
episode_number: '054'
summary:        "'I can almost smell the way the smoke mixed with his cologne.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]

#### January 1st, 1943 

My first new year’s day without John in who knows how many years and I mourn his absence more than I would have suspected possible. I’ve grown accustomed to celebrating the turn of the calendar with him. More than accustomed. I have, in fact, come to treasure it. Yes, perhaps we agreed to meet on this day every thirteen years, not annually, but we haven’t followed that for some time. We don’t need pretense to enjoy each other’s company. 

Was I a fool to come here? John would probably say so. I know he knows I’m not being honest in my letters. There are horrors I would not describe to anyone, let alone a beloved friend. He should not have to carry that burden, especially when he explicitly chose not to get involved himself. A wise choice, I’ve started to think. 

But the horrors would persist if I were not here. Isn’t it better to do what I can? Or is it all futile? Sometimes I look around at my fellow soldiers, see the deadness in their gazes, or cast my eyes over a changed landscape that I suspect will always smell of blood and suffering, and wonder if humanity deserves to survive. Surely a species that can perform these acts against itself is fundamentally rotten at its core. 

And then someone will share a rare bit of chocolate, or a town will shower us with relieved gratitude as we march through, or the thought of John’s smile will dart across my mind and I regain my grip on reality. Mankind has such goodness to it, alongside the bad. Though I certainly don’t know how to better balance the two. I know ending this war will be a start. 

And I know I can never again contribute to the creation of weapons, even if they are used in a cause that feels necessary. Before I left DC, I’d started to hear chatter about some new endeavor—all very hush-hush, but the names bandied about were certainly impressive. A project that, in my youth, I’m sure I would’ve tried to get onto myself, just for the learning experience. But now I worry about what on earth those men are coming up with behind closed doors. 

In any case, this is all very dreary to be thinking about on the first day of a fresh year. Then again, I am in a very dreary place. At least I still have the memory of John, standing in the moonlight on his back patio, smoking my cigarette as the palm trees softly rustled in the breeze. If I close my eyes and cast my mind back, I can almost smell the way the smoke mixed with his cologne. I would have bottled it if I could. 
