---
layout:         post
title:          "December 13th, 1899"
date:           1899-12-13 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "December 13th, 1899"
episode_number: '010'
summary:        "'Perhaps it is because I am staring down the start of a new century.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]

#### December 13th, 1899

As I look to the close of another year, I find myself even more reflective than usual. Perhaps it is because I have more time this year than most, having returned from another country-wide tour just in time to spend a quiet Christmas at home. Perhaps it is because I am staring down the start of a new century. 

Whatever has me in the contemplative mood is unimportant. The important part is that I am contemplating leaving magic altogether. I know that I’m still young—and certainly feel hale and hearty—but I find myself struggling to keep up with the new technologies and changing audiences. I suddenly feel as if I am an illusionist from another age, an age already passed. 

I return to Europe next year, and I have ambitions of adding a new element to my tour. I am performing at all the usual theaters, but I’ve also begun to inquire about places that might be interested in lectures on Spiritualism and the like. It really has become quite the trend, not nearly as fleeting as I expected it to be, and there are an enormous number of charlatans and conmen out there taking advantage of the public. I think if I could speak on the origins of the practice, why it appeals to people, and perhaps work to debunk some of the more prolific frauds, it might do some good. 

Perhaps that is how I’ll stay relevant. I suppose the problem of relevance is one for another day—I still have plenty of shows booked before I can seriously consider retiring. 
