---
layout:         post
title:          "January 1st, 1945 (unsent)"
date:           1945-01-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "January 1st, 1945 (unsent)"
episode_number: '057'
summary:        "'xx.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---

##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers, before its destruction on January 10th, 1945]
#### January 1st, 1945

~~John~~ ~~Jack~~ My dearest,

These are words I’ll never send. It’s too dangerous, letting it pass through the hands of the army. I have no idea if they’d truly care—surely they have more important concerns than the affairs of one officer—but I refuse to put you needlessly at risk. And perhaps I could address the letter to someone else, create a disguise for you, but when I say these things to you—*really* say them—I want you to be certain, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that they are meant for *you*, and no one else. 

So instead I’ve got an as-of-yet-unfinished letter on my lap on which I am writing to you in obscurities and promises of future honesty. I hope you cling to those promises until I can make good on them. But I had to confess my heart somewhere, so my journal will have to do. Maybe I can give it to you someday to show you how often I think of you here, at what feels like the end of the world. 

My journals have long been full of you, but for years and years I’ve hidden the truth from even those most private places. However, the truth hasn’t changed in the absence of its reveal: since the moment we met, I’ve thought you were the most beautiful man I’d ever seen. And I’ve been terrified that putting the whole truth to paper would make the feelings themselves irreversible. 

What an absolutely stupid idea. Regardless of what I’ve put in ink, the feelings I have for you *are* irreversible. I’m tired of pretending otherwise. 

I adore you. I am completely, entirely, foolishly dizzy over you. There it is, in black and white. The torch I carry for you burns so brightly, I daresay it could light up even the largest of your soundstages.

For so long, that fact has brought such torment—how could I have given my heart to someone society would never let keep it? How could I presume to love a man such as you—one with light and life, a clever wit and first-rate brain, a man so many would count themselves lucky to know, let alone touch. Who was I, little Charlie Coughlin, a poor boy from Ohio who used to hawk papers at the corner for scraps, to presume a man like you could return my feelings?

But I’ve had so much time to think while over here, to replay every look, every stray comment, and spin myself quite the fantastical tale. That, perhaps, against all odds, you do return my affections. That you were as blind and stubborn as me and it’s only in our separation that the excuses you made for all the reasons you shouldn’t have dissolved like so much smoke. 

Because what does any of it matter when this is what we’re doing to the world? I know you have often thought me a curmudgeon (fondly, I hope) and I’ll admit that I have those tendencies, but I am filled to the brim with a hunger for happiness. We’ve been given this improbable gift—not just our long lives, but our partnership in that bizarre reality—and I realize now just how nit-witted I’ve been not to grab that blessing for all it’s worth. 

The moment I can, I am coming home to you, just as I promised. And, if you’ll let me, the embrace I give you upon reuniting will be far more passionate than the one I gave in parting.  I wanted to kiss you then, but there is a small part of me that is glad I’ll touch you for the first time in happiness, not as a bittersweet goodbye. 

It will be that much sweeter for the waiting. 