---
layout:         post
title:          "June 21st, 1926"
date:           1926-06-21 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "June 21st, 1926"
episode_number: '037'
summary:        "'If I threw a party, would you come?'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by C.X. Chambers]

#### June 21st, 1926

Dear Charles,

Thank you for the kind birthday wishes. I did in fact have a very nice day, but I will admit that before I received your letter, I’d completely forgotten what day it was. What does a birthday even mean in our circumstance? If anything, September 4th is my true birthday. The day I was born again to live forever.

In any case, another year has indeed passed me by and I’m getting the distinct sense of deja vu. The theater is nearly ready to be reopened (and you can be rest assured it is as fireproof as a building can be) and I feel as if I’m repeating the same beats that my years have contained for the last near decade.

Did your world travels break you out of this never-ending cycle? Do you know what you’re going to do now? I’m sorry I couldn’t make it to Philadelphia when you were there. I would like to see you—it’s been years now, hasn’t it? Perhaps I could tempt you out to Chicago—we’ve broken ground on the new theater here and I quite like the city these days. I think I’ll be here for the foreseeable.

It’s changed a great deal since we were here for the fair and I think you’d be charmed by it. We didn’t take enough advantage of what it has to offer when we were here, too focused on work I suppose, and I’m enjoying being more of a tourist now. I think by the end of the decade, every major city is likely to have a Fogg theater in it. If I have anything to say about it, that is.

But that’s just work, isn’t it? And work, as lovely as it is to have the resources to support the arts and build myself a legacy, is leaving me a little hollow these days. Perhaps I’m simply not creatively inspired. But I fear it may be that I’ve personally stagnated.

I don’t make close friends anymore. What’s the point when they all age and drift off into their own lives while I stay rooted in place? And while you are counted as a good friend, Charles, you haven’t exactly been reliable these recent years. That isn’t a chastisement, simply a statement of fact. And I’m sure I’d hardly notice if I didn’t have all my social eggs in Charles Chambers’ basket.

All to say, it’s been many years since I’ve had a birthday party or a summer solstice bash and I’m thinking perhaps I should bring it back for next year. Perhaps here in Chicago.

If I threw a party, would you come?

J.S.F.
