---
layout:         post
title:          "January 1st, 1904"
date:           1904-01-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "January 1st, 1904"
episode_number: '015'
summary:        "'The man has more capacity for emotion than I know what to do with.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]
#### January 1st, 1904 
A whole year back in New York and I’m uncertain what I have to show for it. The magic trade is as good as ever, but I find myself tiring of the whole business. Twenty years now of nearly endless work and I’m as proficient of ever, but I don’t feel I’m moving forward at all in spite of that. 

I haven’t been able to get the conversation I had with John Fogg out of my head. Exactly a year has passed and his words ring as strongly today as they did on Hayward’s balcony. I’d never seen him in such a state as he was that night, and I have seen him in quite the variety of states of being. Working closely as we did for nearly two years, I saw him frustrated, exhausted, triumphant, jovial, depressed—the man has more capacity for emotion than I know what to do with. It seems to come so easy to him. 

But the last time I saw him—well, I wrote about it in my diary then, so I’m not certain why I’m bothering to rehash the whole affair now. Other than the evening buzzing around my mind like a particularly persistent fly. 

I clearly wounded him deeply. I’d had no idea he was so bothered by what happened at the Fair, at least not in that way. I’ve been bothered by it myself—no man could have experienced what we did and be unruffled—but I’d spent all this time being concerned for his physical and mental wellbeing, meanwhile he has been holding a professional and personal grudge against me! 

To think that he may have been operating under the belief these past ten years that I intentionally sabotaged him—that I put his life at risk in such a way—chills my blood. I have never had much use for the more competitive spirits of our profession and I certainly cannot think of a single reason I would ever attempt to put a fellow magician in harm’s way. Even though Fogg eventually conceded the point, I could tell that there was some truth to his accusation; that at some time over the last decade, he has had moments of truly believing I tried to kill him. 

I suppose it’s for the best that I’ll be getting out of the city for a time. While I don’t particularly relish returning to Ohio, a break from work and from all the complicated dynamics it contains is sorely needed. While Fogg and I would be unlikely to cross paths anyway, especially as I have no shows lined up for the foreseeable, I still find myself wanting some distance from the whole matter. He seems to have doubled down on his ambitions and I shudder to think what kind of death-defying stunt he’ll pull next. 

And I shall put him and our strange conversation out of my mind, especially the way it ended. The less written about his foolish notions, the better. 
