---
layout:         post
title:          "August 14th, 1898"
date:           1891-08-14 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "August 14th, 1898"
episode_number: '002'
summary:        "'I always thought that that final dinner at home would have been our last interaction."
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### June 19th, 1898

Today is my thirty-sixth birthday and I confess, as much as I dread my birthday the further into my middle-age I get, I feel remarkably spry. It isn’t at all what I expected. I remember seeing Michael when he was thirty-six—that was the very last time I saw him, in fact. Though I certainly hadn’t expected it to be. I always thought that that final dinner at home would have been our last interaction. 

But he’d shown up in Chicago, excited to see my act at the World’s Fair. It was a pleasant surprise—and that, in of itself, was a surprise, that it was pleasant at all—but I suppose he simply wanted to see what the oddity of his brother became, because he hasn’t contacted me since. I suppose I could reach out, but I haven’t spoken to any of them in nearly fifteen years, I’m not sure it would benefit me to start now. 

In any case, Michael at thirty-six looked terribly worn. Gray-haired and haggard. Granted, he has children—far too many of them, if you ask me—and I imagine that is quite the wear, even if I suspect he interacts with them as much as our Father did with us. I’ve always had a youthful joie de vivre, I know, but I expected to look older by now. If not as gray-haired as Michael, at least with a few wrinkles, more aching bones, a deeper exhaustion. 

And yet, I feel as well as I ever have. I look it too—I ran into Butler of all people the other week, and he even commented on it. He said he was jealous. Can you imagine! Butler jealous of me. It may have been for my looks and not my skill as a magician, but I will claim the victory all the same. 

I shouldn’t look a gift horse in the mouth. However I’m maintaining my youth, I’ll simply try to keep doing it and hope that that is enough to sell tickets. 
