---
layout:         post
title:          "April 15th, 1913"
date:           1913-04-15 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "April 15th, 1913"
episode_number: '024'
summary:        "'I think it could be an awfully cruel thing to subject someone to a life by my side.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### April 15th, 1913

When I opened the paper this morning, I was rudely confronted by—not one—but several articles remembering the Titanic, on this the one-year anniversary of her ignominious end. It seems that everyone who wasn’t on the ship wants to talk of it endlessly, when all I wish to do is forget. 

It isn’t as if I don’t have other matters for my mind to attend to—while that awful boat ride was an experience I would have chosen to forgo, it has been a wonderful source of inspiration and my act is bigger than ever. I’ve become so well known in America that I can hardly go to the club without one of the other boys coming up to me to fawn over the show or, even more absurdly, tell me how dearly their wives love me. 

You would think these men would be jealous of their wives’ affections being placed elsewhere but instead they are jealous of me for my bachelor lifestyle. And while it’s true I’ve made the best of my unmarried status, I have often wondered if it wouldn’t be the prudent thing to do to go out and get myself a wife. There are plenty of women who would be up to the task, or so they’ve made clear to me, several of which I feel great tenderness toward. Would it not be wonderful to have a permanent traveling companion? To have someone with which to share all this fame and fortune?

And then I catch a glimpse of myself in the mirror and I think it could be an awfully cruel thing to subject someone to a life by my side. 
