---
layout:         post
title:          "November 30th, 1896"
date:           1896-11-30 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "November 30th, 1896"
episode_number: '007'
summary:        "'I may be inclined to admit that Charles is actually quite good at what he does.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### November 30th, 1896

As another year comes to a close, I am once again facing down the stark reality that I may have chosen the wrong career.

Another year, another failure. Another year of empty seats and failed tricks and people looking at me sideways when they realize who I am. How Chambers was able to recover his career in a snap after the disaster of the Fair is beyond my comprehension. I haven’t seen his solo show since ’92, but I gather it is something to behold. The man has toured it all over the country and the continent to boot. They hosted him at the Savoy in London, for chrissakes. I can’t remember the last time that theatre had a magician grace its stage, if ever.

I am forced to confront that I simply cannot compete with whatever it is that Charles Chambers has. Despite his lack of whimsy, his inclination to play it safe, and his simple dress, audiences seem to adore him and pay a pretty penny for the pleasure of his performance to boot.

I suppose, if I were to be honest, in here my private diary of all places, I may be inclined to admit that Charles is actually quite good at what he does. He thinks more about illusions than any man I’ve ever met and it shows in his act.

How could I ever hope to compete? I don’t have the same kind of dedication he does, I can’t come up with the kinds of illusions he does. All I have is my charisma, my dexterity, and my flair for the dramatic. Perhaps I should go into vaudeville. I’m sure that would topple my parents right over if they ever found out. That might make it worth it, in fact.
