---
layout:         post
title:          "June 2nd, 1935"
date:           1935-06-02 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "June 2nd, 1935"
episode_number: '046'
summary:        "'I do so love to hear his voice.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### June 2nd, 1935

Los Angeles is a remarkable city, and one that continues to surprise me. New York is always on the cutting edge and the Exhibition in Chicago certainly had its marvels but every time I come back to the City of Angels after traveling, I feel I am stepping into the future. Everyone here seems to be living in the age of tomorrow, and I will confess to having trouble keeping up from time to time. 

Just the other night, I was at dinner with a jovial group of acquaintances and the conversation turned to the subject of science. And one gentleman (I’m embarrassed to admit I’ve now forgotten his last name, his first being easy to remember given it is my own) began to speak of “rocket science”. Apparently, there are people who not only believe it possible, but are actively working on building a path to the stars. Imagine! A rocket going into the heavens, away from this world, entirely away. 

I suppose I shouldn’t be too shocked by the concept. After all, I grew up taking a horse and carriage everywhere, and now I own and drive myself in an automobile. Why, I even met a fellow the other month who has actually flown in an airplane. For leisure! This commercial flight business is really kicking up these days. I know it is probably only a matter of time until I make the cross-country journey through the air, but at the moment it feels hard to fathom. 

And all these, things that I would’ve witnessed in the course of one mortal life. What wonders will I see in the life I’ve been given?

I should write to Charles and ask him about this so-called rocket science. It seems so much like fiction to me, but perhaps its more feasible than I think. I know chemistry is an entirely different beast from whatever kind of engineering this is, but he may have insight. Then again, he was never one for frivolity and he may consider the mere idea of rocket ships to be such. 

Still, it’s probably worth a letter. Unbelievably, I think it’s been a two full weeks since we last exchanged letters—the telephone really is a remarkable invention and I do so love to hear his voice, but I’m still not quite accustomed to that form of communication as a primary mode of staying in touch. Perhaps that will change as the years and technology march on but, for now, I far prefer the written word.  
