---
layout:         post
title:          "May 15th, 1914"
date:           1914-05-15 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "May 15th, 1914"
episode_number: '025'
summary:        "'It’s no wonder he didn’t write me back.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]

#### May 15th, 1914

Against all odds, I have reached my fiftieth birthday. And I am now forced to admit that John Fogg was very possibly right. 

I do not look fifty. I do not feel fifty. Instead, I think back on the early days of my career success and find myself thinking I look exactly the same. I haven’t had to buy new suits in what feels like decades as everything from my twenties still fits just as they always have. The only thing that ever compels me to purchase a new wardrobe is the changing times and, perhaps, a need to spend some of this money I have. 

The thought has been lurking in the back of my mind for ten years and it can no longer remain in the shadows. I am not aging. And I am helplessly curious to know if John is still in a similar state. 

He never did write me back after I wrote him in ’12. And that was the last time I wrote him. If a man cannot be bothered to respond to a letter of that sort, I daresay he is sending a clear message. But I am feeling increasingly desperate to speak to someone trustworthy about this matter and I can think of no other person. I dismissed him all those years ago when I should have closed my mouth and listened. It’s no wonder he didn’t write me back. 

It is possible I will have to take more drastic action. I just hope I don’t make myself a complete fool in the process. 
