---
layout:         post
title:          "Chapter V - 1942, Los Angeles"
date:           1942-01-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [NYD]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers, John Fogg]
episode_title:  "Chapter V - 1942, Los Angeles"
episode_number: '052'
summary:        "'And how does she look at me? [...] Like every time you speak is a magic trick that awes and astounds her.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
ATMO: We're in the living room of a well-appointed house. All is silent. A key in the lock. Whoever is holding it is not doing a good job unlocking the door. 

CHARLIE: (through the door) Did your butler change the locks while we were out? 

JACK: (through the door) I don't have a butler. 

CHARLIE: (through the door) That secretary of yours seems keen 

SFX: Finally, he gets the door open and the two of them come spilling in. They are drunk. 

CHARLIE: (laughing) Whoops 

SFX: They stumble into the house. 

JACK: (laughing) Steady on, man 

SFX: As they stumble forward, Jack closes the door behind him. 

CHARLIE: At last, your front door has been defeated. 

SFX: Jack throws his keys on a table. 

JACK: You were hardly making the task easy, leaning against me like that

CHARLIE: It isn't my fault the world has decided to tilt…slideways. 

SFX: Charlie goes toward the couch and throws himself down on it. 

CHARLIE: (a sigh of relief) Now that's better. (then) You really do have the best furnishings, John. Have I told you that before? 

JACK: You've made the stray comment, yes. 

SFX: He walks over to his bar cart and starts whipping something up.

CHARLIE: Well, I mean it. You've always had excellent taste, John. (then) Don't tell me you're making us a drink. I'm not sure I can bear to have another sip. 

JACK: (a chuckle) Oh no, you definitely cannot. No, I'm whipping up one of my famous restoratives. (then) Well, not mine. Something from that keen secretary of mine, as it happens. 

CHARLIE: Mm. She does seem...capable. 

JACK: You don't like her. 

CHARLIE: I don't know her. 

JACK: She's been my assistant for five years, you know her well enough. 

SFX: Jack finishes making the drinks and moves over to the couch. 

JACK: Here you are 

SFX: He hands the drink to Charlie. 

Budge over 

SFX: Charlie shifts to make room and Jack sits down on the couch. 

JACK: Go on, have a sip. Tastes godawful but it'll save us from the hangover. 

SFX: Charlie takes a sip. 

CHARLIE: (gagging) Good Lord, that is truly terrible. 

JACK: Sobers you up though, doesn't it? 

CHARLIE: I wasn't aware I needed sobering. It's New Year's Eve, I'm leaning into the spirit of the holiday. 

JACK: New Year's Day now, technically. 

CHARLIE: So I'm leaning into the spirit of that holiday then. (murmured) Our holiday. 

JACK: You've leaned quite hard.

CHARLIE: And how is it you're still relatively upright? You were drinking as much as me. 

JACK: Yes, but I'm in the habit of drinking quite a lot quite regularly. You are not. 

CHARLIE: Ah, the life of a movie producer. Wonderful parties and beautiful secretaries and magical sobering concoctions. 

JACK: Not so magical. 

CHARLIE: Even though your wonderful secretary came up with it? 

JACK: (amused) What exactly is the nature of your complaint against her? 

CHARLIE: I don't have any complaint against her. I think she's probably quite clever and just as capable as you said a moment ago 

JACK: You said that. 

CHARLIE: I did? 

JACK: You did. 

CHARLIE: Well, is she? 

JACK: Is she what? 

CHARLIE: Capable. 

JACK: Extremely. 

CHARLIE: Well, see, there you go. Now you've said it. 

JACK: And you've still not said what it is you take issue with. 

CHARLIE: I think she's in love with you. 

JACK: She isn't. 

CHARLIE: (not hearing him) And, well, there's something natural in that. It's not so unusual for a person to marry their secretary.

JACK: I have no plans to marry her. 

CHARLIE: (still not hearing him) But she's just so young, and I know that you are too--in fact, for all I know, she believes she's older than you - I would never presume to guess a woman's age but if I were a betting man 

JACK: You are. 

CHARLIE: I'd say she's in her thirties, which would make her older than your...twenty-something-or-so appearance except she isn't, is she, Mister Fogg? She's not older at all. 

JACK: No, she isn't. 

CHARLIE: So, I just don't think it's very proper for you to be messing around with her.

JACK: I'm not. 

CHARLIE: I understand the temptation but- (then, catching up) You're not? 

JACK: No. 

CHARLIE: But she's in love with you. 

JACK: I don't know where you got that impression. 

CHARLIE: It's the way she looks at you. 

JACK: And how does she look at me? 

CHARLIE: Like every time you speak is a magic trick that awes and astounds her. 

JACK: I don't think she looks at me like that. 

CHARLIE: She does. 

JACK: You were claiming to not know her a moment ago. 

CHARLIE: I don't. Not really. 

JACK: So how would you know her well enough to evaluate the way she looks at me?

CHARLIE: Because I- (he cuts himself off) 

SFX: Charlie shifts in his seat. 

CHARLIE: (laughing nervously) I am drunk. Are you sure there's no liquor in this? 

JACK: Positive. 

SFX: Charlie downs the rest of it. 

JACK: Charles.

SFX: He slams the glass down on the coffee table. 

CHARLIE: (wincing) Ah. There. 

JACK: How badly are you regretting that? 

CHARLIE: Badly. 

JACK: It really is meant to be sipped slowly. 

CHARLIE: I see why. 

JACK: If you're going to be sick 

CHARLIE: No. No, I'm fine. 

SFX: He relaxes against the couch. 

CHARLIE: Apologies, John. I may not be at my best. 

JACK: You don't need to apologize, old thing. (beat) But you do have the wrong end of the stick. Miss Spencer is engaged to be married, and even if she wasn't, she wouldn't be looking in my direction. 

CHARLIE: You can't deny she's fond of you. 

JACK: Of course she's fond of me. And I think she's grand right back, but any...starry-eyed glances she's sending my way are because, well, I don't know if you noticed, but I'm a significantly successful movie producer-

CHARLIE: Yes, the mansion we're in was a good clue. 

JACK: And she has aspirations toward the same. She admires me. I'm a mentor. 

CHARLIE: Just a mentor? 

JACK: Nothing more. 
C
HARLIE: Good. That's good. 

JACK: Is her age really your primary objection? Because, I have to be honest with you, my affairs have not been restricted to those who share my birth year. And I doubt yours have either. We are nearly eighty. 

CHARLIE: No, of course, I wouldn't expect… (then) Who is the current paramour then, if not your secretary? You haven't mentioned anyone in a while. 

JACK: It's been a while since there's been anyone to mention. 

CHARLIE: There certainly doesn't seem to be a shortage of interested parties. 

JACK: I told you, Miss Spencer -

CHARLIE: I more meant the grand pantheon of performers that swarm around you. 

JACK: I try not to mix business and pleasure too much. 

CHARLIE: But you do. 

JACK: Only with actresses not in my studio. And only if they pursue me first. 

CHARLIE: Very (working hard to pronounce it) gentlemanly of you. 

JACK: I like to think so. 

CHARLIE: And actors. 

##### [a beat]

JACK: Hm? 

CHARLIE: Actresses and actors. 

JACK: What do you mean?

CHARLIE: There was that Archie fellow, wasn't there? 

SFX: Jack shifts on the couch. 

JACK: Charles... 

CHARLIE: At least, you certainly sounded fond of him in some of the letters you wrote to me 

JACK: And by "fond", you mean... 

CHARLIE: Would I be wrong? 

JACK: No. (then) You don't seem scandalized. 

CHARLIE: Should I be? 

JACK: I'm not certain. I don't know that I ever expected to have this conversation. 

CHARLIE: Really? Then why write to me about it in the first place? Him and the others 

JACK: Others? 

CHARLIE: I am a man known by some for my intelligence. 

JACK: I just didn't think you'd picked up on this particular...subtlety. 

CHARLIE: Maybe I didn't at first. But eventually... 

JACK: And it doesn't bother you? 

CHARLIE: Why should it? 

JACK: I'm not sure. I guess I expected it to. 

CHARLIE: John, we both made our fortunes in the theater for chrissakes. I lived in New York for decades, have traveled six continents...I'm not exactly a babe brand new to the ways of the world. 

JACK: No you are not.

CHARLIE: So, no. It doesn't bother me, or shock me, or any other puritanical reaction you may wish to foist upon me. 

JACK: Apologies for my misjudgment. 

CHARLIE: Apology accepted. (then) So then...no new paramours to report home about? Of any kind? 

JACK: No. No one that's stuck at least. (then) The truth of the matter is that I probably do relate more to the average senior citizen than anyone who looks like a peer. 

CHARLIE: Yes, that does seem to be the central difficulty in building lasting relationships. 

JACK: Is that why you never proposed to Miss Hale? 

CHARLIE: I beg your pardon? 

JACK: Eudora, your dear friend back in Washington 

CHARLIE: I know to whom you refer - though she is Mrs. Phelps now - but I don't understand why you're referring to her at all. 

JACK: You never once thought of it? 

CHARLIE: Of proposing? 

JACK: She's a remarkable woman. 

CHARLIE: That she is. But no, I never considered it. Not seriously. 

JACK: But un-seriously? 

CHARLIE: The stray thought sometimes occurred that there might be an expectation, spending time with her the way I did. Certainly back when we were young men about town 

JACK: When were you a young man about town?

CHARLIE: Yes, fine, my social calendar was never as robust as yours, but you know what I'm getting at. 

JACK: That friendship with women was difficult to do when spending any amount of time alone with one automatically suggested interest of the matrimonial kind. 

CHARLIE: Exactly right. 

JACK: So in socializing with Miss Hale... 

CHARLIE: It took me a moment to get used to the idea that I could enjoy her company and eat meals with her, take her to museums, so on, and not feel like a complete cad for not asking her hand. 

JACK: But you never earnestly wanted to? 

CHARLIE: No. 

JACK: Because of the immortality? 

CHARLIE: That and...I don't know. I couldn't picture it. A life with her. Not in that way.

JACK: Has there been...anyone you could picture such a life with? 

CHARLIE: It's all a moot point. As you say, even if I had felt that way for Eudora, how would it have worked? 

JACK: Mm. Torn between those who share our youth in body and those who share our age in brain really leaves us with only one option. 

CHARLIE: A lifetime of bachelorhood. 

JACK: So it seems. 

CHARLIE: Or, the occasional shortlived affair, as some would choose. (then) Said without judgment. 

JACK: And that...that's acceptable to you? 

CHARLIE: (more sober than he has been) More so than the alternative. 

JACK: And what's the alternative?

CHARLIE: A broken heart, surely. 

JACK: Yours or someone else's? 

CHARLIE: That's just the trouble. I don't know. (a heavy sigh) And look at that, Charles Chambers once again bringing the mood down and killing the party. 

JACK: (a small laugh) You haven't 

CHARLIE: And here I thought you were the maudlin drunk. 

JACK: I've been every kind of drunk. 

CHARLIE: (smiling) That's true...remember...god, what was it, twenty-six? Twenty-seven? That to-do at 

JACK: Oh god, yes. I'd forgotten about that. 

CHARLIE: I'm surprised you remembered any of it in the first place. J

ACK: That night was full of surprises if I recall 

CHARLIE: Oh, don't 

JACK: Charles Xenophon Chambers regaling the entire crowd with a song

CHARLIE: You were the one who bullied me into it. 

JACK: I dared you and you somehow took that seriously. 

CHARLIE: Yes, well, you're well aware I'll do anything you dare me to, and you use those powers for evil 

JACK: Oh, anything? 

CHARLIE: History shows 

JACK: History shows that you like to prove me wrong 

CHARLIE: A man says that you never surprise him and it does stick in your head 

JACK: And doing exactly as I instruct is your way of surprising me?

CHARLIE: I guess it's not that much of a surprise anymore 

JACK: I think you're just easily goaded. You've always had a bigger and more fragile ego than you'd like to admit 

CHARLIE: (laughing) That's rich, coming from the man who has his own name over one of the largest studio lots in Hollywood 

JACK: You hate losing a bet, so I think it's less you'll do anything I dare you and more that you'll do anything not to lose. 

CHARLIE: I think you underestimate your own influence 

JACK: Perhaps it's just that no one else has made the attempt to bully you into frivolity. 

CHARLIE: I'm not sure anyone else could. 

JACK: Are you saying I'm a singular figure in your life? 

CHARLIE: Given that you're the only other immortal person in my life, yes, John, I'd say you're singular. 

JACK: Outside of that- if we weren't in the situation we're in. By which I mean 

CHARLIE: Yes, yes, I know what you mean. Given that we're in this situation because you successfully dared me 

JACK: No, no, don't go revising history. I lost the bet. 

CHARLIE: Ha! Fifty years and I think that's the first time you've ever said the words "I lost" out loud. 

JACK: The decades have made me older and wiser and more able to admit my own shortcomings. 

CHARLIE: What shortcomings? Look around you- you've got this house, your studio, a full social calendar 

JACK: How did this turn into you complimenting me?

CHARLIE: You're a very impressive man, John. Perhaps that's why I'm so inclined to do as you say. 

JACK: You and I have a very different perception of your amenability. 

SFX: Charlie leans forward on the couch. 

CHARLIE: You think I haven't done a whole host of things in my life that I wouldn't have otherwise because of you? 

JACK: I think you and I are often matched in stubbornness 

CHARLIE: Go on, Jack, try it out, tell me to do something 

JACK: Charles 

CHARLIE: It should be even simpler than usual given I'm still a ways away from sober 

JACK: (dry) You don't say. 

CHARLIE: Come on 

JACK: (laughing) I can't think of a single thing I'd want you to do

CHARLIE: No? Not down another one of those disgusting concoctions? 

JACK: We're not in primary school anymore 

CHARLIE: You could dare me to jump in your swimming pool in my tuxedo and I might just do it 

JACK: (laughing) This is an entirely new side of you, Charles 

CHARLIE: Come on, you're a creative man and very much enamored of your own authority 

JACK: I think that's you 

CHARLIE: So tell me to do something. Anything. 

JACK: Anything?

CHARLIE: Whatever it is that's running through your head right now - and I know something is, I can see it in your eyes - just ask it. 

JACK: (serious) Don't go. 

CHARLIE: Jack 

SFX: Charlie leans back. 

JACK: Don't go. 

CHARLIE: Of all the things. 

JACK: You said 

CHARLIE: I have to go. 

JACK: You don't. We've both paid our dues. 

CHARLIE: You have. You put your body on the front lines and got blown up for your troubles. 

JACK: And you gave your whole brain to the effort. 

CHARLIE: And was responsible for who knows how many deaths as a result? 

JACK: You don't have a penance to pay. 

CHARLIE: I'm not 

JACK: You are. You've never let it go, Charles. 

CHARLIE: I -

JACK: And I'm not saying you should. I understand. I mean, I know I can't ever truly understand but I...I experienced things, did things, that still haunt me to this day. I know what it is to take a life. I know that, no matter how just the cause, it takes something from you that you can't get back. But the answer is not to go running into a war 

CHARLIE: What you did was directly in the theater of war - it was kill or be killed. And I'd never judge you or begrudge you the actions you took to save your own life and the lives of those around you. (then) But I stood in a lab and made weapons that brought horrible death to so many. I was never at risk. And now those same weapons that I helped formulate are being used the world over 

JACK: So your solution is to go and die by your own hand in some ill-conceived, roundabout way? 

CHARLIE: My solution is to balance the scales. Put myself in the line of fire and let fate decide. 

JACK: You've gone complacent, Charles 

CHARLIE: That's exactly what I mean 

JACK: No, you've gone complacent around your own mortality. 

CHARLIE: Lack thereof. 

JACK: We don't know that. It might take us longer to die in freezing cold, maybe we're harder to kill, Lord knows I've tested the limits of that, but we are still flesh and blood. You can be killed. 

CHARLIE: Until it happens, it's just theory. 

JACK: I'm perfectly satisfied with it staying a theory. 

CHARLIE: But are you satisfied with standing idly by while this war rages on? It's come to our shores, Jack, and who knows how much worse its going to get. And some of the things they're saying about what's going on over there 

JACK: You know how people exaggerate in times of crisis. There's been no solid reporting. 

CHARLIE: But if it's true- if even an ounce of it is the tiniest bit true 

JACK: I know. (beat) I know. 

CHARLIE: I'm not suggesting that you need to sign up and fight 

JACK: Don't think I haven't considered it. I understand, Charles. I really do. 

CHARLIE: Then don't ask me to stay. Please.

JACK: If it was me. If I was shipping off to the Pacific tomorrow 

CHARLIE: I'm not off to the Pacific yet. Just basic training. 

JACK: Charles 

CHARLIE: And who knows if I will even go to the Pacific. I'm more familiar with Europe, speak a little French, a little German 

JACK: It doesn't matter where they send you. You'll be at war. 

CHARLIE: And then hopefully I'll be home. You yourself have complained to me about the country's reluctance to get involved - maybe now that we are, this war will end sooner rather than later 

JACK: Don't hold my own words against me 

CHARLIE: What would you have me do? Ignore it all? Is that what you plan to do?

JACK: Would you find me despicable if I said yes? 

CHARLIE: No. By all rights, we shouldn't even be eligible 

JACK: Exactly. So give up this foolish notion of dying on the battlefield

CHARLIE: I don't want to die 

JACK: And let's find some other way to support the war effort. Together. (beat) Just...stay here. You said I could ask for anything, didn't you? 

CHARLIE: This isn't what I had in mind. 

JACK: What did you have in mind? 

CHARLIE: Daring me to sing again, perhaps. 

JACK: Oh come on, Charles, I think your imagination is better than that.

CHARLIE: Do you? I thought I had no sense of...what was it, whimsy? Joy?

JACK: Mm, I believe it was wonder. 

CHARLIE: That's right. No sense of wonder. 

JACK: I'm surprised you remember that. 

CHARLIE: Why? Not that I remember every conversation we've had with perfect clarity, but it helps that you're the only person I talk to with any consistency. 

JACK: But that was before. Before we were what we are. Before I lost a bet and ruined an illusion and condemned you to an eternal life. 

CHARLIE: I don't feel condemned. 

JACK: Then why do you insist on walking to the gallows? 

CHARLIE: Jack... 

JACK: You don't have to atone. 

CHARLIE: Ask me anything else. Anything. 

JACK: And even if I do...you'll still report for duty tomorrow? 

CHARLIE: Yes. But until then 

JACK: Then you'd better get to bed, Charles. 

SFX: Jack pulls back, standing up. 

JACK: The headache is going to be bad enough as it is without having to endure it while taking a bus to basic. 

SFX: Charlie stands up. 

CHARLIE: John 

JACK: And get a glass of water before you go to sleep 

SFX: Jack moves away but Charlie grabs his arm. 

CHARLIE: Don't-

SFX: Jack stops still. Charlie lets him go after a moment. 

CHARLIE: I'm sorry. 

JACK: Go to sleep, Charles. You have an early morning. 

SFX: Jack walks off to his bedroom, leaving Charlie standing in the living room.

CHARLIE: (sighs) 

SFX: Charlie starts to walk the other way, to the guest room, and stumbles.

(dizzy) Whoa there 

SFX: He stops. 

Fresh air. Fresh air would do me some good. 

SFX: He walks to the big french doors leading out to the patio and we go 

ATMO: Out to Fogg’s patio. Los Angeles in the middle of the night. Quiet. Palm trees rustling lightly in the wind. 

CHARLIE: (inhales deeply and then exhales) 

A beat passes as he takes in the night. 

(muttering) Charles Chambers, you first-rate fool. (then) As if he'd… (a scoff) What juvenile... 

SFX: He digs into his coat pocket and pulls out a pack of cigarettes. He sticks one in his mouth. 

(self-deprecating, around a cigarette) "Oh, ask me to do anything, John-" 

SFX: He lights the cigarette. Takes a long drag. 

CHARLIE: (inhales, exhales) You absolute dope. 

SFX: Jack steps out onto the patio. 

JACK: I could have told you that.

CHARLIE: (jumping) Lord love a duck- John 

JACK: Sorry 

CHARLIE: You're bizarrely light-footed for a man of your height. 

SFX: Jack joins him. 

JACK: I'm not sure I've ever received that particular compliment. 

CHARLIE: I'm not sure it was a compliment. (then) You're in your dressing gown. 

JACK: Yes, well, I was planning on going to bed. 

CHARLIE: This is the outside, John. 

JACK: I can see that. 

CHARLIE: Your bed is inside. 

JACK: I could smell the cigarette smoke. 

CHARLIE: Oh. I'm sorry, I can put it out. 

JACK: No, don't, it's- You're the only person I know that still smokes Sweet Caporals.

CHARLIE: Am I? 

JACK: Yes. I- the smell, it always makes me think of you. On the rare occasion someone is smoking one. 

CHARLIE: I like the cards. 

JACK: (fond) I know you do. 

CHARLIE: (inhales, exhales) 

JACK: May I? 

CHARLIE: Oh, of course, let me 

SFX: Charlie goes into his coat pocket.

JACK: No, I don't want a whole one, I'll just have a bit of yours. 

SFX: Jack steps closer, pulling the cigarette out of Charlie's hand. JACK: (inhales, exhales, then) Mm. That is nice. 

CHARLIE: You don't smoke much anymore? 

JACK: No, I do- just not these. 

CHARLIE: Ah yes, Lucky Strike is your brand now isn't it? 

JACK: For the time being. Maybe I should switch back. 

CHARLIE: Hm. 

JACK: I don't want to be angry with you, Charles. 

CHARLIE: I hadn't realized you were angry with me. 

JACK: Maybe I'm not. (beat) I'm...frightened I guess. 

CHARLIE: It isn't such a good feeling, is it? Worrying for a friend's wellbeing? 

JACK: That sounded pointed. 

CHARLIE: Do you know how many times I've been terrified for your life? I still have dreams about the fair, you know. 

JACK: You do? 

CHARLIE: That...frozen moment, before you came back to consciousness. I dream of being trapped in that moment forever. 

JACK: I'm sorry. 

CHARLIE: It isn't your fault. 

JACK: It isn't yours either. 

CHARLIE: No longer blaming me for your failure then?

JACK: I haven't for a long time. 

CHARLIE: (a small laugh) Who'd have thought, all the way back then, that we'd be here now, huh? The circumstances that immortality will thrust you into... 

SFX: Jack takes another step. 

JACK: You never answered my question. 

CHARLIE: Which question? 

JACK: If we weren't in the situation we're in. If we weren't thrust together by magical happenstance...do you think I would have still been a singular figure in your life? 

CHARLIE: That's impossible for me to know. For either of us to know. 

JACK: Use some of that imagination I know you have. 

CHARLIE: Alright. (then) I think we would have remained rivals, yes. Most likely, we would have made each other better illusionists simply through fierce competition. 

JACK: So...enemies forever? 

CHARLIE: Not enemies. I don't think I would have been able to stay your enemy. I've always found you far too interesting. 

JACK: Is that so? 

CHARLIE: Yes. Perhaps you would have continued to hurl barbs at me whenever we saw one another 

JACK: (a scoff) Hurl barbs 

CHARLIE: But I would have tried to make peace, I think. I would have reached out an olive branch eventually. 

JACK: In the form of what? 

CHARLIE: Maybe another double act. Maybe...friendship? 

JACK: So you think we'd be here now, regardless. 

CHARLIE: Presuming we would even still be alive at our age.

JACK: Yes, I suppose that's not a guarantee. 

CHARLIE: But...I don't know, John. I have no idea if you would have been open to an overture of that nature. 

JACK: An overture of what nature? 


CHARLIE: Of...friendship. 

JACK: Of course. 

CHARLIE: Would you? 

JACK: I think I have been. 

CHARLIE: But only because I'm the only one who understands your situation? 

JACK: No. No, I think I would have been receptive regardless. I would never have admitted it back then, but I would have seen it as a great compliment for you to want to socialize with me. 

CHARLIE: (scoffs) That's utter horseshit. 

JACK: My god, the language. Los Angeles is having a terrible influence on you.

CHARLIE: I think that's you. 

JACK: You seem remarkably more sober than you were. 
CHARLIE: It was that disgusting drink of yours. Or the cigarette.

JACK: You're not even smoking the cigarette. 

CHARLIE: Yes, I've noticed that. You're letting it burn down to nothing. 

JACK: Here 

SFX: Jack places the cigarette into Charlie's mouth. 

Smoke the rest.

CHARLIE: (around the cigarette) You could've just handed it to me. 

JACK: This was more efficient. 

CHARLIE: (takes a final, long drag) 

JACK: Good? 

SFX: He stamps out the cigarette. 

CHARLIE: Far better than your Lucky Strikes. 

JACK: You're such a snob. 
C
HARLIE: And you are obsessed with keeping up with the times. God forbid someone accuse you of being old-fashioned. 

JACK: I'm suddenly remembering why it's so easy to be angry with you. 

CHARLIE: (levity gone) Are you? Genuinely? 
JACK: I don't know. 
CHARLIE: Well...keep me posted. Once you've figured it out, I'll be sure to behave accordingly. 
JACK: And what is the appropriate behavior? 

CHARLIE: In the face of your anger? Usually waiting for you to get over it.

JACK: (scoffs) Charming. 

CHARLIE: I don't know, John, you haven't been angry with me in...decades it feels like. 

JACK: Maybe that's why I'm having a hard time identifying it now. 

CHARLIE: Or maybe you're not angry at all because deep down you know I'm right.

JACK: Clearly you are still drunk. 

CHARLIE: Very droll.

JACK: I'm serious. I don't think you're right. Deep down or otherwise. I think you think you're right but then again, you always do. 

CHARLIE: John 

JACK: What if I gave you a reason to stay? 

CHARLIE: What? 

JACK: To be honest, Charles, part of me suspects that you're just plain bored. Bored and lonely and still wracked with guilt 

CHARLIE: I've never denied the guilt 

JACK: But fighting in this war won't assuage that. And perhaps you'll not be bored and lonely on the battlefield 

CHARLIE: I'm not lonely. 

JACK: I don't mean it as a slight, Charles, but I know what your life in D.C. is like, how you still keep yourself at arm's length from everyone 

CHARLIE: Weren't we talking earlier of a friendship so close that it could be mistaken for romantic interest? 

JACK: (taken aback) Were we? 

CHARLIE: Miss Hale. 

JACK: Oh right. Yes. (then, recovering) But when is the last time you actually saw her, hm? She's married now and 

CHARLIE: I'm not lonely. 

JACK: It doesn't make you weak 

CHARLIE: How could I be lonely? I have you. 

JACK: We live three thousand miles apart. 

CHARLIE: And are in near daily contact. 

JACK: I cannot be your sole friend.

CHARLIE: And you aren't. 

JACK: But 

CHARLIE: Do you know how rare it is, what we've found? 

JACK: I know how precious our immortality is, which is why I don't think 

CHARLIE: Not that. 

JACK: What? 

CHARLIE: Understanding. You understand me and I you - we know everything about each other. Have shared fifty years of friendship. Survived a war and economic disaster and being reborn anew 

JACK: (muttering) God bless Mister Welton, Esquire. 

CHARLIE: Indeed. (then) It is impossible to be lonely when you're still walking this earth. I am known, John. No number of days spent in solitude could ever change that. 

JACK: Charles, I… (then) Well, I'm quite speechless. 

CHARLIE: (smiling) The great Charles Chambers achieving the impossible yet again. 

JACK: (a laugh) You do think quite a lot of yourself, don't you? 

CHARLIE: I learned from the best. 

JACK: So the fact of our friendship has given you the confidence to fuck off to a war, is that it? 

CHARLIE: (scandalized) John 

JACK: You'll have to get used to that sort of language if you're going to bond with your brothers in arms. 

CHARLIE: That isn't why I'm going. 

JACK: What isn't?

CHARLIE: To bond with my brothers in arms. 

JACK: Yes, fine, you're not lonely. But my point still stands that this will not cure you of your guilty conscience and if you're feeling restless, get a change of scenery. Move here like I've been telling you to do for years and come work with me. You'll love the movie business. 

CHARLIE: I'm not bored. 

JACK: Then tell me what it is. If I can't compel you to stay by commanding it of you, tell me what would. 

CHARLIE: There's nothing in this world I want, not anything I can have anyway JACK: You've done real actual magic, Charles, I wouldn't be so quick to assume. CHARLIE: I just want to protect what I do have. I want this war to be over. 

JACK: And you're going to personally spit in Adolf's eye and see him to the next plane of existence, is that it? 

CHARLIE: You are angry with me. 

JACK: I suppose I am. 

CHARLIE: And there's nothing I can do about it, is there? 

JACK: Beside the obvious? No. 

CHARLIE: I see. (then) I don't want to leave with us both 

JACK: I know. Neither do I. 

CHARLIE: So. Let's not. 

JACK: Let's not what? 

CHARLIE: Be angry with each other. 

JACK: Oh, you're angry with me now, are you? 

CHARLIE: Let's just...agree to disagree.

JACK: We have always been very good at that. 

CHARLIE: (smiling) We have. 

SFX: A long beat. Then Jack steps back. 

JACK: Come on, come to bed- (then, realizing) I mean, come inside and go to bed. (beat) You can open all the windows in the guest room, it'll be like you're still outside. 

CHARLIE: Yes. Alright. 

JACK: You do have that early morning and -

SFX: Charlie grabs him, pulling him into a hug. 

JACK: (softly) Charles? 

CHARLIE: In case I don't get a chance to hug you goodbye tomorrow. 

JACK: You've never hugged me goodbye at all. 

CHARLIE: Oh -

SFX: He starts to pull back. 

JACK: No.

SFX: Jack holds on tight. 

Might as well commit to it now. 

CHARLIE: Right. 

SFX: They relax into it. 

JACK: (very quietly) I don't want you to die. 

CHARLIE: I won't. 

JACK: You might. 

CHARLIE: Maybe you should dare me not to.

JACK: Oh, that you'll entertain? 

CHARLIE: Worth a shot. 

JACK: (a sad laugh) We should bet on it. 

CHARLIE: What are the stakes? 

JACK: You come home and I'll let you star in my next movie. 

CHARLIE: And if I don't? 

JACK: Then I will use actual magic to bring you back and you'll have to live with the consequences. 

CHARLIE: That sounds reasonable to me. 

SFX: They pull back. 

JACK: Good. 

CHARLIE: Yes. Good. (then) What if I don't want to be a movie star? 

JACK: Well, what do you want, Charles Chambers? 

CHARLIE: Nothing - 
JACK: Even if you think you can't have it. What do you want? 

CHARLIE: To come home to y- (beat) To come home. That will be reward enough, I think. 

SFX: Jack steps back. 

JACK: Shake on it? 

CHARLIE: Of course. 

SFX: They shake hands. 

JACK: Goodnight, Charles. 

CHARLIE: Goodnight, John.
