---
layout:         post
title:          "June 4th, 1920"
date:           1920-06-04 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "June 4th, 1920"
episode_number: '031'
summary:        "'You can stay the weekend, the week, the month. Just say you’ll come.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by C.X. Chambers]

#### June 4th, 1920

My dear Mr. Chambers, 

Apologies first and foremost, or taking such a godawful-ly long time to return to return your letter of the fourteenth of April. Once again, you prove yourself to be an endlessly thoughtful and fastidious person. I feel in utter shambles next to you so often.  But with a  bright new shining decade at our disposal, I’m determined to be more organized. 

An auspicious start, isn’t it? Diving fully into the new decade halfway through its first year. But I’m only just back from my post-war jaunt around the globe—a trip well-earned, I’d say—and I’ve purchased an absolutely absurd estate on Long Island. More rooms and more land than I know what to do with, but I’m sure I’ll find ways of filling it all. After so many years being a respectable, responsible middle aged man, I think I’m due for some foolishness. 

To kick it all off—my triumphant return home, the sparkling nineteen-twenties, my extravagant purchase—I’ve decided to throw the party of this, and any, season. On June 21st, I’ll be hosting an enormous fête for the summer solstice, an occasion I’ve never given much thought to, but which is celebrated all around the world with great aplomb. There will be dancing and eating and libations, both legal and otherwise, and I do think it will be a rollicking good time.  

I would like to have you there. In truth, I’m not certain who will be on the guest list. It’s tricky, isn’t it? Just as you predicted, making and maintaining connection over the decades when we appear the way we do is quite difficult. And with the war and being away for so long after, my social circles have dwindled severely. I’m thinking of inviting my brothers and sister for God’s sake, so please come save my poor dulled soul. 

I know we haven’t seen each other in some time, but there would be something poetic, I think, in meeting again at the halfway point of the year.  I had toyed with the idea of hosting a New Year’s Eve party instead, but the holiday is now so wrapped up in time spent—

Say you’ll come. You can stay the weekend, the week, the month. Just say you’ll come. For now, I am, 

Humbly Yours, 

John
