---
layout:         post
title:          "September 20th, 1939"
date:           1939-09-20 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "September 20th, 1939"
episode_number: '049'
summary:        "'Wouldn’t that be better? If we could just run away? What do we need except for each oth—'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [an unfinished and unsent letter from J.S. Fogg to C.X. Chambers]

#### September 20th, 1939

Dear Charles, 

What an absolutely rotten world we live in. When this year began, I never would have anticipated that, nearing the end of it, half of Europe would be at war. Perhaps I should have. Perhaps I was being naive in assuming we’d learned our lesson. At the very least, I hope our country has learned its lesson and will act more swiftly than we did twenty years ago. Though I won’t be holding my breath. 

Not that I want to go to war. It would be my preference that we never feel the need to deploy our military ever again. But then I remember all we lost—all the death and destruction—and I drive myself to madness thinking of what could have been if we’d thrown our might into the fray at an earlier stage. And this already feels much the same, though this time, it’s as if there’s a palpable anger, a sense of revenge. This cannot lead anywhere but into hell. 

What are we to do, Charles? I’m not sure I can bear to experience the toils of war again, but I’m equally uncertain that I can simply stand by and watch. You contributed off the battlefield back then, and contributed quite a lot. I would like to think I could support the cause in some similar way, but I’ve never had the knack for science in the way that you do. For chrissakes, I’m a movie producer. 

Then again, I know just how much the ghoulish results of your own work plagued you and do so even now. I know we’ve never discussed it, not deeply, but war truly does make men commit horrible acts. Or perhaps that is merely an excuse and it is only the weakest men who succumb to the vagaries of violence against his fellow man. Perhaps I am a weak man. 

What if we said “dash it" to the whole business? What if we packed up a few bags, just the necessities, hopped on a boat and pushed off into the Pacific? We could find a little island somewhere I’m sure, one that has never seen the depravities of humankind. We could build a better life there, you and I. After all, we hardly require what an ordinary human needs. Have you ever seen how long you can go without food, Charles? There was one week during the war when rations were particularly low. I gave mine to a younger man who had never left his small town before going to the front and whose eyes were permanently wide. And I discovered we can go quite a while without even feeling the pangs of hunger. 

We could do it, I think. Run away, separate ourselves from society in a way that reflects just how separate we already are. Maybe we can’t die of hunger in the trench, but there are other, awful ways to die. And, despite it all—all my years and adventures—I’m not ready yet. I’d rather find a sunny spot and drive each other crazy for years to come. Wouldn’t that be better? If we could just run away? What do we need except for each oth—
