---
layout:         post
title:          "July 14th, 1937"
date:           1937-07-14 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "July 14th, 1937"
episode_number: '047'
summary:        "'It was the damnedest thing—he called me at home the moment he heard the news and asked if I was alright.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### July 14th, 1937

Well, it is official—nothing was salvageable from the fire. The films are hardly the most important concern of the whole ordeal, not when a young boy is still recovering from severe burns (and how I do hope he recovers swiftly), but I do mourn the loss of some of my older, earlier attempts at filmmaking. Not to mention, all the other films that were stored there. In his letter, or at least the letter his office sent, Kent said that they hoped to recover silver from the remnants, so that’s something. 

I imagine Fox is seething—another black stain on his already tarnished legacy. I’m sure this would have still happened under his, or anyone else’s, regime, but I’m sure he’s furious all the same. I would write to him with my condolences, but I’m not even certain of where he’s living these days. 

In any case, it hardly needs to be stated that I will be making my own arrangements for storage from now on. Which means I need to figure out some kind of solution for the eastern seaboard. Or maybe the Los Angeles warehouse will suffice. A problem for another day. 

Though perhaps I am the true problem—after all, this isn’t the first time that a fire has destroyed something precious of mine. A fact of which Charles was very quick to remind me. It was the damnedest thing—he called me at home the moment he heard the news and asked if I was alright. He called me, on my telephone in my home in California, to ensure that I was safe from a fire in New Jersey. I suppose a man doesn’t think straight when confronted with the fear of losing a friend. Why I would have been at a film storage site on a random Friday in July, I can’t fathom, but then again Charles didn’t seem particularly clear-headed when I answered. 

I must say, I was touched by his concern, even as I found it a bit baffling. He’s been very distracted as of late and we haven’t been communicating at our usual cadence. The state of affairs in Washington sounds particularly tangled at the moment, but I can’t help but wonder if his relative reticence has more to do with the recent nuptials of one Miss Eudora Hale. Or, I should say, Mrs. Eudora Phelps as she is now and will forever be known. 

Despite his protestations, I have always suspected that Charles carries a torch for the young woman, one kept in his care and his care alone because of some misguided notion of being too old to marry someone of her age. I have always understood his concern of outliving a spouse, but Miss Hale Mrs. Phelps has always been a bright woman of great intellect and, I think, could have been entrusted with the truth and left to make her own decisions. 

Whatever his feelings on the matter, it is too late for Charles to do anything about it now. And I can’t say I’m sorry for it, even if I feel a pang of sympathy for my brother in immortality. I like Eudora very much, having met her several times through the years, but despite her mind and beauty, I never thought she and Charles were the right fit. This Phelps fellow seems far more appropriate. I just hope that Charles sees that someday. 
