---
layout:         post
title:          "July 29th, 1936"
date:           1936-07-29 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "July 29th, 1936"
episode_number: '047'
summary:        "'Lord knows you’ve got the face and charisma for it.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by J. S. Fogg]

#### July 29th, 1936

Dear John, 

You’re right. I do now regret not joining you in Los Angeles four years ago for the games. I was under the misapprehension that, having seen them all those years ago in Paris, I wouldn’t be missing much. But I think we would have had a marvelous time watching the spectacle together and I apologize for depriving us of that experience. Though I did very much enjoy your letters at the time.

That said, to your other question: yes, I do plan on listening. In any other circumstance, I would be unequivocally thrilled that the Olympics are being broadcast so widely, but I share your concern over these games. The sentiment in D.C. has been divided—the administration, officially, has always stayed out of it, intent on the Olympic Committee maintaining their independence, but there are many of us who hold serious reservations about the wisdom of participating. There are others still who feel we must go and beat the Germans in as many competitions as possible to really show the Chancellor what-for. 

All a moot point now, of course, as we are, in fact, participating. I suppose we may get clarity on what the right choice was once the games have closed, but I fear it may be far more complicated than that. There are many days where I open the paper or talk to diplomats here and have to work to convince myself that the sky isn’t falling. The world is harsh and, at times, appears to be getting harsher, but we’ve weathered so much, surely we can weather whatever lies ahead. 

To speak of happier subjects, I was so pleased to see just how well your newest picture is doing. I myself went to the theater the day it opened and had a grand old time. You’re really  building yourself quite a studio, John, and full of many talented performers it seems. Do you find you enjoy working with so many different actors? Only, you were a solitary performer yourself for so long. Though perhaps it is different when you’re not the one on stage. 

But I have to ask John—why aren’t you? Not on stage in this case, but why aren’t you up there, on the screen? I know that film acting is probably considered quite different from what you—what we—used to do, but Lord knows you’ve got the face and charisma for it. Is it considered bad practice for a producer to be in his own films? Or is it concern over your face becoming too known? I’m sure if you regrew your beard that would be less of an issue, though I suppose that isn’t the fashion as much these days. 

For whatever it’s worth, this old friend of yours would enjoy seeing you up on the silver screen. But, until that time, I’ll certainly continue enjoy seeing your name. 

CXC
