---
layout:         post
title:          "September 4th, 1893"
date:           1893-09-04 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "September 4th, 1893"
episode_number: '002'
summary:        "'He certainly has a face worth putting on the posters that paper our home city.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C. X. Chambers]

#### September 4th, 1893

It feels surreal—almost trite—to put pen to paper after the disaster of this evening, but I fear if I do not, the lessons I’ve been forced to learn will dissipate the next morning like so much smoke.

For months now, Mr. Fogg and I have been performing the Hands of Thor act with great aplomb. As reluctant as I am to admit that Fogg’s ideas have merit, the illusion was thrilling and challenging in all the best ways—a careful balance of dexterity, misdirection, escapology, and careful engineering. The audience was awed and delighted and I felt we would continue on just like that until the end of the Fair.

I am uncertain how or what exactly went wrong. We’d had the occasional bumps in the past—improper timing, an imperfect angle that risked revealing something to the audience. But never anything like this.

For all his faults—of which there are many—Mr. Fogg is gifted in the art of escape. I had always felt it was a crude art, all brute force without any subtlety whatsoever. Though I have yet to admit so to Fogg, I have resigned myself to being wrong on this particular subject.

I had underestimated the beauty of it. Fogg makes his escapology not about brute force, but about sheer force of will. Where I’ve seen lesser men perform the illusion to make it appear as though they are supernaturally strong, Fogg leads the audience to believe he is untangling himself from an impossible trap via his clever mind and sly hands. His act is not about straining against the chains with desperation, but about making the audience believe that he is in complete control the entire time.

That isn’t to say Fogg lacks strength. My own acts keep me hale and hearty but Fogg cuts an impressive figure. Were it not for his impulsive and reckless nature, I imagine he would have precisely the career he desired. He certainly has a face worth putting on the posters that paper our home city.

But that very nature of his will continue to be a stumbling block if he fails to keep it in check. That is, if it doesn’t kill him first. By all accounts, he should be dead. There was a moment I thought I might perish right alongside him.

The whole business is, humiliatingly, being written up in the papers as we speak, though I suspect it will be forgotten about next week when the Fair doles out another unexpected surprise. According to the various newsmen I know, the long and short of the newspaper reports will be that Chambers and Fogg, rivals extraordinaire, nearly succeeded in killing one another. The World’s Fair is electric all over, but our show seems to be the only part of it that nearly turned a spark into a fire.

Perhaps my original ambition of controlling lightning—of appearing to control lightning—was doomed from the start. For months and months I’ve held electrical currents in my palm, and yet the power of that same current entering my skin set me on my back. It is truly astonishing to me that neither Fogg nor I are any worse for wear. The fact that I am able to write this at all feels like a miracle—should not my hands still be shaking? Would not my vision still be blurred? But no, now that I’ve retired to the apartment I’ve let for the duration of the fair, I feel as I always do after a full day of performing—exhausted and exhilarated in equal measure.

I asked Mr. Fogg to return home with me and make use of the guest room that has stood empty since Mother left three weeks ago. I thought it prudent to keep an eye on him, lest he expire in the night. But he refused, citing his need to “have a stiff drink” after what he endured. I imagine he is still out on the town, drinking his worries away.

I suppose I will just have to hope that he shows up for our show tomorrow and that I won’t have to read about his body being found in alley in one of the same newspapers that will be reveling in our failure come morning.
