---
layout:         post
title:          "November 11th, 1940"
date:           1940-11-11 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "November 11th, 1940"
episode_number: '050'
summary:        "'Perhaps I should go pick up the telephone and give John a ring.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of C.X. Chambers]

#### November 11th, 1940 

There are certain days I wake up and feel my age. Lately, I’ve been having many of these mornings. 

All this constant news of war. Today is supposed to be a day of remembrance for a hard-worn armistice and instead it feels as if we’ve slid back twenty years. Even uninvolved as I am, it still wearies the soul. And then I will experience a bright burst of happiness—a fine meal, the smell of woodsmoke in the first winter chill, a phone call with John—and it will be as if my mind is as young as my body appears. 

But that moment will end and reality will creep in and it can be damned difficult to balance the two. How is a man supposed to find happiness amidst all this destruction? And yet how is he supposed to live without happiness?

Is existence always to be this simultaneously tedious and anxiety inducing? Eternal war, never-ending misery, and yet still bright and clear snippets of love for your fellow man and this good earth? I don’t like to think of myself as inherently wiser than most simply because I’ve been alive as long as I have, and yet I do think there’s something to be said for the wisdom that comes with being witness to man’s foibles and inability to learn from them over and over again. 

But I should not wallow like this, I know. It serves no one. Perhaps I should go pick up the telephone and give John a ring. It always is damned restorative. 
