---
layout:         post
title:          "February 17th, 1907"
date:           1907-02-17 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "February 17th, 1907"
episode_number: '018'
summary:        "'And it will be extraordinary.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [from the personal diary of J.S. Fogg]

#### February 17th, 1907

At last, I am beginning to see the kind of due I have long known I’m owed. All the business is settled, and I’ll be starting my first United States tour in the spring. I set off in late March, just when New York is at its most frustrating weather-wise—never making up its mind on whether it wants to move forward into springtime or not—and it will be an eight state tour that will take me all the way to San Francisco. 

I’ve never been to California before. The furthest I’ve traveled from my dear island is the cold and inhospitable Chicago (though, to be fair to the White City, I did not visit in the cold months, though I still found it ultimately inhospitable). Quite the opposite of the green and warm Western shores. 

There’s ever so much I look forward to seeing out West. But more than anything, I thrill at the idea of getting to perform for a new audience. While New York certainly sees its fair share of travelers, enough to keep the theater filled with fresh eyes, it feels to me that there will be something unique in meeting people in their homes. Bringing magic to the places they live; the extraordinary to their ordinary lives. 

And it will be extraordinary. The show that I’ve conceived is my boldest yet. In truth, it’s an exhausting hour for me, what with the numerous physical feats I undertake, but I’m as youthful and fit as ever. And I continue to look in the mirror and marvel at the man who stares back, the same as he has been for nearly fifteen years. 

Whatever it is that led to this situation, I am beginning to find it most amenable. To think of daring to do my illusions as the forty-two year old man I am—to perform the escapes with the physical form of the age I claim to be…well, it beggars belief! As I am now, it seems as if nothing can stop me. The real difficulty will be in coming up with illusions and escapes that are more exciting than the last; that will be the true challenge.

Perhaps I shall gather inspiration while on the road. On the road! What a wonderful notion. 
