---
layout:         post
title:          "August 5th, 1944"
date:           1944-08-05 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [John Fogg]
episode_title:  "August 5th, 1944"
episode_number: '055'
summary:        "'I’m having a difficult time recalling the particular pitch of your voice.'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by C.X. Chambers]

#### August 5th, 1944 

Dear Charles, 

The time that has elapsed since your last letter would have me concerned if every other friend I knew with someone over there wasn’t in the same boat. I suppose it’s difficult to move that much mail across the world, but I do hope to hear from you soon. 

There are, in fact, many more people in my life who I can relate to on this particular point than I expected. Mrs. Bowman—née Spencer; she and her beau got married just before he shipped off, I can’t remember if I mentioned that—often speaks of her frustrations at not hearing from her husband. And it feels silly to admit, but I half feel the same. Not that I’m some sort of war wife sitting at home, but in that I have been used to a particular cadence of communication with you. Yes, we’ve gone many years without speaking, but that hasn’t been the case for decades. Ever since we both got telephones in our homes, we’ve spoken at least once a week and I’m sorry to say that I’m having a difficult time recalling the particular pitch of your voice. 

I hope you’ve made some friends over there. If memory serves—which it often doesn’t on this particular subject—that camaraderie was one of the few bright spots in the war. Though I can’t say I’ve kept in touch with many of those fellows. Then again, not many of them came home. How did we get here again, Charles? How have we not learned? When I think of those men I served with, I picture the old men they must be now. Except that wouldn’t be the truth. Many of them would be in their fifties, hardly senior citizens. And yet it feels as if surely it must have been long, long ago that the world nearly fought itself to ruin. 

I hope things aren’t as bad over there this go around. Though I suspect they’re worse. I wish I had some idea of where you were beyond just “the Western Front”. I know that, even if you cared to tell me, it would be redacted before it ever reached me, but having traveled the continent so much myself, it would be some comfort to picture you in familiar places. Then again, I’m sure those landscapes look much different now. 

But on to happier subjects—if it makes it through the various checkpoints this package will no doubt go through before it reaches you, you should have a carton of Sweet Caporals in your hands. I have no idea if you’re able to get them where you are but my guess would be that any pleasure is in short supply. I hope this provides some degree of relief, even for a moment.  ~~I keep thinking of being on my patio and you -~~

Smoke them, trade them, share them with your men. Whatever you do, I hope you ~~think of me~~ do it safely.

Until I see you again, I am,

Your friend,

John
