---
layout:         post
title:          "June 11th, 1917"
date:           1917-06-11 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [letters]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers]
episode_title:  "June 11th, 1917"
episode_number: '028'
summary:        "'Why couldn’t you just be selfish, John?'"
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---
##### [a letter received by J. S. Fogg, in a medical tent in France]

#### June 11th, 1917

My dear Mr. Fogg,

I was surprised by the contents of your last letter, to put it mildly. I expected some discussion of the war—an inevitable subject these days, even before taking into account the focus of my letters to you. So, yes, I expected to hear your thoughts on the matter, but I never could have anticipated that you’d write to tell me you’d joined up.

Do not misunderstand me; it is an admirable thing that you’ve done, but it is perplexing to me all the same. Just a few months ago, you wrote that the theater had extended your contract. When I was in London in November, it seemed just as packed a house as it was at the start of the year. And you seemed to be enjoying yourself as much as you always have. Why the change of heart?

I confess, I feel a sense of…failure may be too strong a word, but at the very least a disappointment alongside my confusion when I read your note. Were my own words on the subject not deterrent enough?

I hadn’t realized that was what I was trying to achieve in our correspondence, but it was. You know better than anyone what I’ve experienced. What I’ve seen. What I’ve done. Putting those harsh realities to paper has been daunting, but I wanted you to know it all. As it turns out, I wanted you to know because of a secret hope inside me that you would want to stay as far away from the whole business as possible. I know I am not the only person you are hearing these dire stories from, so what is it that has you running directly into the flames?

I don’t regret writing all those truths to you, even if they ultimately did not have the effect I unknowingly desired, but I do regret revealing my own methods for forging identification papers. You are a clever man, no doubt about it, so I am certain that you would have found a solution on your own, but I detest the idea that I may have helped you appear young enough to fight. We are, both of us, too old to be out in these trenches and yet that is where we find ourselves. I hope we never meet each other out here. I hope this war ends before we have the chance.

It was only a matter of time until America entered the war, and sometimes I wish I had waited until we had before volunteering. The British forces have been bright and brave compatriots the past fifteen months, that isn’t from where the remorse originates. But perhaps if I had waited for our nation to join before offering myself up, I wouldn’t have “accomplished” what I have over the last year.

Perhaps it is wrong of me to write such things, or even think them, but that doesn’t lessen their truth. It is truly horrible, what I’ve created, and I will live in shame for the rest of my life. It causes me to wonder if our shared state is, in fact, a punishment after all, at least for me. That I should live forever with the knowledge that I helped create such terrible toxins. That I’ve choked men to death with my creations, left them disfigured and in pain, resigned them to a daily terror of gas creeping toward them. It matters not one whit who these men are. We are all the same in death and I have ensured that death is a thing that blisters and strangles and drags its victim across hot coals.

I know what you’ll say, because you’ve written it to me before—that if not me, some other poor, arrogant fool would have come up with it. That chlorine and mustard gases were already plaguing the battlefield, that it is only a matter of time before our enemies uncover an even more horrifying compound. But save your ink. None of it, however true or well reasoned, changes the fact that I’m here, that I’ve done what I’ve done.

Why couldn’t you just be selfish, John? Why couldn’t you do what you do best and hold yourself above all other considerations? Are you already so bored of your illusions? Do you feel the need to prove that Fogg the Fearless can escape a war so few have?

Promise me this: treat your gas mask as if it is the heart that beats in your chest. Go nowhere without it. Do not test the limits of our unnatural existences, lest you discover you really are unable to be killed and wind up in a perpetual state of misery for the rest of eternity. Do not be too proud to run.

I am currently far afield, huddled below no man’s land and dripping mud onto this letter, written on the very last of my current paper supply. So I will not chastise you further except to say: I have known too many good men who have died. Indeed, I have not allowed myself more than a passing cordiality with the men I fight with, lest I gain affection for a fellow only to see him killed in the way I have seen so many killed. I would ask—I would beg you—to reconsider your decision if it isn’t already too late, but I suspect it is. All I can ask then, is that you put that impressive brain of yours to good use and look out for yourself. ~~I could not bear to lose~~

Please be careful. I am, reluctantly, now your brother in arms,

CXC

