---
layout:         post
title:          "The Train, 1942 // New Year's Day Aside'"
date:           2026-01-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     [episode]
trailer:        false
tags:           [Episodes]
podcasts:       [misc]
voiced:         [Charles Chambers, John Fogg]
episode_title:  "The Train, 1942 // New Year's Day Aside"
episode_number: '998'
summary:        "Non-canon bonus content."
official:       true
notes:          "Edited by [raenv]"
---

*This story was originally posted on <a href="https://atypipals.com/">"Atypical Artists' Patreon</a> as a non-canon aside on February 1st, 2026.*

#### The Train, 1942

The guest room is empty. 

When John awoke—somehow spared of the hangover but with a sense of dread sitting in his stomach—he’d looked at the clock on his nightstand and been relieved to see they still had half an hour before they needed to leave for the train station. Not very much time, but he’d take what he could get. 

Except Charles is gone. The bed is neatly made, the wardrobe bare of all Charles’ belongings, save his tuxedo. He’ll have no use for black tie where he’s going. 

And the man himself is nowhere to be seen. 

“Charles?” John steps into the en suite to find the same abandoned scene, as if Charles had never been there at all. 

“Charles,” he calls out again, moving out of the guest room and quickly making his way through the rest of the house, “where have you disappeared to?” 

He keeps his voice light, not wanting Charles to think him foolish for panicking. But he is. He’s panicking more and more with each empty room he passes through. He’d been preparing for weeks—ever since the moment Charles wrote him to tell him he enlisted—to say goodbye to the man. Even in begging him to stay, John had known he wouldn’t. But he’d fallen asleep last night knowing he’d at least get to see his friend off and now he’s filled with the horrible suspicion that Charles has gone and flown the coop without so much as a word.

Only when John reenters the living room from the patio does he see the piece of paper on the coffee table. 

“He wouldn’t dare…” 

But as he picks it up, familiar handwriting leaping from the page, it is very clear that Charles, in fact, had. He’d dared to ship out without saying goodbye to John face-to-face.

He almost doesn’t want to read whatever Charles has to say for himself. But he sees a word out of the corner of his eye that can’t possibly be there, and curiosity gets the better of him. Curiosity always gets the best of John Fogg. 

John, the letter begins, the curve of Charles’ “J” a beloved shape in John’s life, always looking like Charles was pressing his pen hard to the page, ensuring ink flowed properly into the pathways of John’s name, like he was something important. Something worth the potential of ink staining Charles’ finger. 

*John,*

*You must think me a coward, leaving you a note like this instead of doing the gentlemanly thing and saying goodbye properly.*

“You’re damn right I do,” John mutters. 

*And perhaps I am a coward. I certainly behaved like one last night. This morning. Whatever damnable time you call this hour. There was no hope that I would sleep and the moment that sun rises, I will be out the door. I can’t bear to face you. I’m terrified that if I do, in the stark light of day, I truly will do what you dare me and stay.*

*But I don’t want to be a coward, John. I want to stand up and do what’s right. And that includes what’s right by you. I never should have gotten us into that childish baiting contest; I should have been a man and said straight out what was going through my mind.*

*I wanted to kiss you.*

John’s heart trips in time, sprinting fast once it regains its footing. There was that word, the one that had snagged his gaze the moment he glanced at the letter. And it is real, written with the same heavy hand. Undeniable. 

He reads the sentence again, indulging in it.

*I wanted to kiss you. That isn’t a new thought for me to have, it may surprise you. Or maybe it won’t. Maybe I have been as obvious as I fear in where I lay my affections. They are with you, always with you, and all I wanted was for you to dare me to prove it. For me to confess all, to take you in my arms, to show you what life could be like when I return.* 

*I’m reasonably certain you won’t be appalled by what I’ve written here, or report me to my superiors. But just because you are likely to accept my nature, given you appear to share it (at least somewhat), doesn’t mean that you return the depth of my feelings or, in fact, any feeling at all. And if I’d revealed my heart to you and been rejected, going to war would have felt too much like running away. And I want to be doing this for the right reasons.* 

*So you’ll forgive me this final act of cowardice. I wanted to say goodbye to you, but I’ve worked myself into such a state, I am certain that I will kiss you if confronted with your face again. For a man who has never had a shortage of vanity, I think you are still unaware of just how beautiful you are. It has been the primary vexation of my life since ’93. Particularly when you laugh, even—perhaps especially—if you are laughing at me. What I wouldn’t give to feel the shape of it with my own mouth.* 

*Don’t feel you need to respond to this letter, John. Forget it, burn it, pretend it never happened—I just ask that, if you’re able, you still receive me as a friend when I return. I could not bear to lose your friendship.* 

*Until such time we see each other again, I have been, and will remain always,* 

*Yours,* 

*Charles*

John isn’t sure how long he stands in his living room, early morning light filtering in, the words on the page blurring when he reads them over and over again. 

Charles was mistaken—he hasn’t been obvious at all. Maybe there have been moments when John thought perhaps there was some spark of attraction but…

The paper is fluttering and it takes John a moment to realize it’s because his hand is shaking. He takes a deep breath and folds the page carefully before setting it back down. 

“You bastard,” he murmurs, staring at the grain of the table, like he’ll be able to see Charles’ fingerprints there if he looks hard enough. 

What is he supposed to do with this? It feels as though Charles has handed him a grenade and pulled the pin before turning heel and fleeing. He can hardly write Charles back, not when any letter he sends will first pass through many unscrupulous hands. How is he supposed to tell him he feels the same?

John’s knees buckle and he finds himself abruptly sitting down on his sofa. 

*Does* he feel the same? Charles is a handsome man, John has always known that. And yes, he has imagined what it would be like, from time to time. But John has fleeting thoughts about many of his acquaintances—he is a man that enjoys life to the fullest, that becomes infatuated at the drop of a hat. He’d said as much to Charles once. 

Except it isn’t a passing fancy with Charles, is it? The man is his oldest and dearest friend, the only person with whom he wants to share his troubles and triumphs. The only person he allowed to care for him when he had shell shock. The one person he thinks of daily—when he wakes up, before he falls asleep, whenever he sees something that reminds him of Charles, which, John is realizing, is most things. 

“Dear God.” 

The words fall from his lips without much thought, the revelation making him dizzy enough he’s happy he’s already sitting. He wonders if this is how members of his audience feel—astonished by the reality of an illusion after being effectively misdirected. 

But John isn’t left with a spectacle to behold, or a trick whose magic will vanish when put under a spotlight. No, he’s left with an empty house and a letter he won’t be able to respond to for who knows how long; with a pulled back curtain divulging the secret of his friendship with Charles. That behind the glittering camaraderie is a driving mechanism of something much deeper. 

He glances at the clock on his wall. If he drives fast, maybe—*maybe*—he’ll be able to catch Charles before his train leaves. But then what?

John decides that “go to the train station” is enough of a first step. He’ll figure out the rest as it comes. 

—

Union Station is bustling, filled to the brim with men in matching uniforms. John worries for a moment that he has no hope of finding Charles. But as he glances at the passing figures, he realizes just how well he knows the man; has been subconsciously studying him for decades. He’d know him—the gait of his walk, the set of his shoulders, the curve of his ear—anywhere. 

And yet minutes of searching prove fruitless. 

“Charles!” 

He runs along what he thinks in the proper train, looking into the windows, trying to catch the familiar shape in the press of bodies. 

“Charles Chambers!” He hears the desperation in his own voice, his heart pounding louder than any sound in the station, a ticking clock counting down the seconds remaining before he loses Charles to the war. 

The conductor steps onto the platform, calling for last boarding, and John is about to jump on the train himself and deal with the consequences when he hears his name. 

“John?” 

He spins around to see Charles half a car down, leaning out of the entrance. John races down, having to crane his neck to look Charles in the eye where he stands several steps above. 

John only now realizes that he’s been picturing Charles in uniform. But whatever fantasy he’s conjured in the back of his mind pales in comparison to the real thing. It fits him as well as any of his suits, but his spine seems straighter somehow, his gaze clearer. He looks like the hero he yearns to be and John wants to capture him on film almost as much as he wants to grab him by the lapels. 

Charles looks down at him in confusion. “John, what are you—“

“You should have said goodbye,” he says breathlessly. 

The wrinkle between Charles’ brow—one that, John has to admit now, he’s been fixating on for some time—gets deeper. 

“I know.” Charles comes forward, down a step, and lowers his voice. "But…did you get my note? I couldn’t—”

“Yes, you could have,” John says pointedly. “You should have said goodbye. Properly.” 

John has had the singular pleasure several times in his long life of genuinely surprising Charles Xenophon Chambers. While an easy man to fluster, he is a difficult one to get on the back foot. But now Charles’ eyes widen in earnest shock, before roaming over John’s face, looking for the trick. 

“You don’t mean—”

“I do mean,” John snaps. “You absolute dolt.” 

The expression that overtakes Charles’ face then is one John has never seen. Red blooms prettily across his cheeks, his beaming, disbelieving smile rivaled in its brightness only by the spark in his eye. 

He's *happy*. Charles Chambers is truly happy and John is weak in the face of it. He’s happy and he’s about to leave and he’s almost too handsome to look at in his uniform and John is filled with a crackling energy that sends him back to the first time they stepped on stage together, at the World’s Fair. 

“Charles—” He steps forward, not knowing where his feet or words are leading him. But he  doesn’t need a destination, not when Charles is moving down onto the bottom step, a glint of determination in his gaze. 

He grabs the handrail with one arm and wraps the other around John’s waist, pulling him close. And then he kisses John like John has never been kissed before.

He kisses him like he’s leaving. Like he’s just come back and is starved after years on the battlefield without a loving touch. Like they’re the only two people in the entire world and that’s the way he likes it.

Charles kisses John like he’s been waiting five decades to do it. 

When they part for air, Charles presses his forehead to John’s, and the wool of his hat scratches the awful reminder that they’re about to be separated for God knows how long. The feelings unearthed in John this morning still feel too new to name, but he knows he can’t squander this opportunity, not when tomorrow isn’t guaranteed, not even for them. 

“Charles,” he says breathlessly. “Charles, you must know that I—”

—

John wakes up cold. 

The sun is just beginning to peek in through the open curtains, accompanied by the cool air of morning. He’d left the window unlatched, wanting the scent of the Sweet Caporals to waft in as he slept. 

All he smells now is the jasmine from his garden. If he were to shut his eyes, perhaps he could sink back into sleep and have Charles’ familiar cologne flood his senses once again, imagine the sensation of his touch, the strong presence of his hand at John’s back. 

Or perhaps he could leave his bedroom and find the real thing. 

He’s not sure what he’s hoping for as he dresses—it’s just after dawn, surely Charles will still be in the house. But that would mean the dream he’s still reeling from wasn’t some kind of prophecy. Charles hasn’t left him a note revealing all and John won’t run after him for an eleventh hour reciprocation. 

That may be the most unsettling outcome of the dream—the revelation that John reciprocates. Or, no, not reciprocates. Charles has given no indication of feeling. It’s John who’s left holding the proverbial grenade of realized affection, his subconscious taunting him with the idea that he would only have such an epiphany in the safe harbor of Charles’ already open arms. 

“John?” 

His heart stops, stomach filling with butterflies at the sound of Charles’ voice. So he is still here. And John is already overcome with feeling just at the hearing of his own name. 

He feels *he’s* the one setting off for the front as he makes his way to the living room. 

“I’ve got to get going,” Charles says when John steps into the room. “And I wanted to be sure to say goodbye.” 

Charles in uniform is as devastating in real life as it was in his dream. He looks every bit the perfect American soldier. It is easy to imagine him, proud and smiling on a recruitment poster. What an advertisement for enlisting that would be. Perhaps the only thing that would get John to go back. 

He doesn’t look at Charles for long—can’t bear to—but merely nods his head and turns to search for his driving gloves.

“Come on,” he says, “I’ll drive you to the train.” 

“No need.” Charles waves a hand in dismissal. “I’ve ordered a cab. It’ll be here any moment.” 

“You didn’t have to do that,” John says peevishly. Maybe if he can be annoyed with Charles—with his propriety, his thoughtfulness, his insistence that he’s always somehow in the way—this won’t hurt so damn much. 

“You have better things to do with the first day of a fresh year than chauffeur me around,” Charles says lightly, eyes sliding away. John takes the opportunity to look at Charles fully. Still absurdly easy on the eyes, but there’s a drawn paleness to his face that belies his otherwise calm demeanor. 

“No I don’t,” he says gently. “I always spend the first day of the year with you.” 

Charles smiles sadly, still staring off into the middle distance, but says nothing. He doesn’t need to voice what they’re both thinking—that the likelihood of them spending the first day of 1943 together is slim. 

The silence is broken by a car honk. 

“That’ll be it,” Charles says, picking up his bag and glancing back at John. “Thank you, as ever, for your hospitality.” 

It’s John’s turn to wave away the niceties. “You’re always welcome, old thing.” 

Charles straightens his spine, becoming the dashing leading man of John’s dream, and briefly steps forward before seemingly thinking better of it. John’s heart is in his throat, preventing him from speech. His hands feel heavy at his sides, weighed down by the effort put into not reaching for Charles. 

“Goodbye, John,” Charles says, putting his hand on the doorknob. “I’ll see you soon.” 

“Goodbye, Charles.” John just barely manages to get the words out. “Be safe.” 

And with a final nod of acknowledgment, Charles opens the door and steps out into the sunshine. And then he’s gone. And John is left with the memory of the hug they shared the night before and the horrible, tantalizing imagining of so much more. 
